  Abstract   How well can NLP models generalize to a va-   riety of unseen tasks when provided with task   instructions ? To address this question , we first   introduce S -N I ,   a benchmark of 1,616 diverse NLP tasks and   their expert - written instructions . Our collec-   tion covers 76 distinct task types , including   but not limited to classification , extraction , in-   filling , sequence tagging , text rewriting , and   text composition . This large and diverse collec-   tion of tasks enables rigorous benchmarking of   cross - task generalization under instructions —   training models to follow instructions on a sub-   set of tasks and evaluating them on the remain-   ing unseen ones .   Furthermore , we build Tk - I , a trans-   former model trained to follow a variety of   in - context instructions ( plain language task def-   initions or k - shot examples ) . Our experiments   show that Tk - I outperforms existing   instruction - following models such as Instruct-   GPT by over 9 % on our benchmark despite   being an order of magnitude smaller . We fur-   ther analyze generalization as a function of var-   ious scaling parameters , such as the number   of observed tasks , the number of instances per   task , and model sizes . We hope our dataset and   model facilitate future progress towards more   general - purpose NLP models .   1 Introduction   The NLP community has witnessed great progress   in building models for generalization to unseen   tasks via in - context instructions ( Mishra et al . ,Figure 1 : An example task from S - NIadopted   from Chawla et al . ( 2021 ) . A successful model is ex-   pected to use the provided instructions ( including task   definition and demonstration examples ) to output re-   sponses to a pool of evaluation instances .   2022b ; Sanh et al . , 2022 ; Wei et al . , 2022 ) using   large pretrained language models ( Raffel et al . ,   2020 ; Brown et al . , 2020 ) . As remarkable as mod-   els like InstructGPT ( Ouyang et al . , 2022 ) are , the   contribution of various design choices to their suc-   cess is opaque . In particular , the role of super-   vised data has remained understudied due to lim-   ited data released by the corporate entities behind   major models . In addition , it is nearly impossible   for the research community to extend and re - train   these gigantic models . Addressing these two chal-5085   lenges necessitates the availability of large - scale   public benchmarks of a broad range of NLP tasks   and their instructions to facilitate developing and   evaluating models that can generalize to unseen   tasks .   In this paper , we construct a meta - dataset ( i.e. ,   dataset of datasets ; Triantafillou et al . , 2019 ) that   consists of a wide variety of NLP tasks with their   instructions , and train a model that can perform   a new task given the instruction , outperforming   InstructGPT ( which uses 16×more parameters ) .   Our dataset , S -N I   ( S - NI for short ) , is a large benchmark of   1,616 NLP tasks and their natural language instruc-   tions . It brings in a diverse variety of tasks—76   broad task types spanning 55 different languages .   Each task is paired up with an instruction that con-   sists of the task definition for mapping an input text   to a task output and several examples for demon - strating the desired or undesired output ( see Fig.1   as an example task ) . These tasks and their instruc-   tions are contributed by 88 NLP practitioners , in   response to our public call . These contributions are   consolidated after several rounds of peer - review   and crowdsourced feedback to ensure quality . Hav-   ing this diverse and large - scale data enables us   to carefully split the tasks into training and test   sets and systematically study how state - of - the - art   methods perform on them . Table 1 and Figure 2   highlight properties of S - NIcompared to   relevant benchmarks , emphasizing the diversity of   tasks and instruction types in our benchmark .   Our model , Tk - I , is a generative   model for transforming task inputs given declar-   ative in - context instructions ( task definition or k-   shot examples ) . It is built by multi - task training   of the T5 model ( Raffel et al . , 2020 ) over all the   task instructions in our training set , and is eval-5086uated on unseen tasks in the test set . Interest-   ingly , an 11B - parameter Tk - I can out-   perform the 175B - parameter InstructGPT model   by 9.9 ROUGE - L points when evaluated on 119   unseen English tasks , and the multilingual variant   mTk - I outperforms InstructGPT by 13.3   points on 35 non - English tasks ( § 6.1 ) . According   to human evaluation , Tk - I generates re-   sponses at least as well as the ground truth for 77 %   of the testing instances ( § 6.2 ) , confirming its strong   generalization to unseen tasks .   The compelling empirical performance of Tk-   I confirms the importance of super - sized   meta datasets such as our S - NI to facil-   itate research towards generalizable NLP models .   We conduct extensive analysis to understand the   important factors for this generalization ( § 7 ) . Our   analysis shows that scaling up the diversity of train-   ing tasks and the model size are both important   for strong generalization to unseen tasks . Finally ,   we estimate performance upper bounds , suggesting   further room for improvement .   2 Related Work   Language instructions are a versatile way of defin-   ing goals , which is why they have been studied   in the context of a variety of applications , such   as instructions in grounded environments ( Shrid-   har et al . , 2020 ; Stepputtis et al . , 2020 ; Min   et al . , 2022b ; Weir et al . , 2022 ) and database com-   mands ( Kim et al . , 2020 ) . Here , we focus on appli-   cations of instructions for general NLP tasks .   Recent literature has been motivated by building   models that are generalizable across a variety of   NLP tasks , when prompted with either a few ex-   amples ( Ye and Ren , 2021 ; Bragg et al . , 2021 ) or   language definitions ( Efrat and Levy , 2020 ; Weller   et al . , 2020 ; Zhong et al . , 2021 ; Mishra et al . ,   2022b , a ; Parmar et al . , 2022 ) . Our work is re-   lated to the existing benchmarks in this line of   work , as delineated in Table 1 along various dimen-   sions . Our benchmark extends NI ( Mishra   et al . , 2022b ) with 26 ×more tasks and greater va-   riety of task types ( Fig . 2 ) . While C F(Ye   et al . , 2021 ) focuses on benchmarking with a few   in - context examples , our benchmark also offers   task instructions .   Concurrent to our work , P S   ( Bach et al . , 2022 ) is another benchmark of tasks   and their language instructions ( prompts ) . An im-   portant distinction between this benchmark andours is the phrasing of the task definitions : while   P S task definitions are relatively   concise , our task definitions are collected with the   intention of providing a complete definition of each   task and therefore are longer ( 24 tokens vs. 56 to-   kens on average ; Table 1 ) . More recently , B-   B ( Srivastava et al . , 2022 ) introduces a col-   lection of 204 tasks and also provides short task   descriptions and input prefixes that can be used for   prompting LMs . With little overlap to our collec-   tion of tasks , they focus more on finding challeng-   ing tasks that can be used to test different behaviors   of current LMs . Nevertheless , we believe that all   these efforts in collecting different tasks as well as   the task instructions are complementary , and the   community will benefit from considering different   benchmarks . Finally , the well - adopted InstructGPT   model ( Ouyang et al . , 2022 ) is partially enabled   by a large dataset of prompts that are collected via   various synthetic data augmentation which , unfor-   tunately , is not publicly available .   Beyond cross - task generalization , our bench-   mark can also be used to study multi - task learn-   ing more broadly , which is a longstanding goal for   AI ( Caruana , 1997 ) . Traditionally , this literature fo-   cuses on setups that involve evaluation on tasks that   are observed during training ( Collobert and Weston ,   2008 ; Hashimoto et al . , 2017 ) . More recent studies   show promise that large - scale multi - task learning   can enable strong generalization to similar tasks via   unified encoding ( Khashabi et al . , 2020 ; Xie et al . ,   2022 ) or better finetuning results on downstream   tasks ( McCann et al . , 2018 ; Aribandi et al . , 2022 ) .   Our proposed benchmark provides diverse tasks for   studying multi - tasking at a massive scale .   3 S -N I   S -N I is a meta-   dataset ( Triantafillou et al . , 2019 ) consisting of a   variety of NLP tasks ( see Fig . 2a ) and instructions   that describe them in plain language .   Instruction schema . All task instructions follow   the same uniform schema ( see Fig . 1 ) which is   composed of the following parts :   • D defines a given task in natural lan-   guage . This is a complete definition of how an   input text ( e.g. , a sentence or a document ) is ex-   pected to be mapped to an output text .   • P E are samples of inputs and   their correct outputs , along with a short explana-   tion for each.5087• N E are samples of inputs   and their incorrect / invalid outputs , along with   a short explanation for each .   The above schema is based on that of Mishra et al .   ( 2022b ) , though it is simplified . See Appendix C   for the comparison .   Task instances . Given the instructions for each   task , a model is expected to solve instances of that   task . We use a unified format to organize the in-   stances of all our tasks . More precisely , each in-   stance consists of a textual input and a list of ac-   ceptable textual outputs . We limit the number of   instances in each task to 6.5 K to avoid an imbal-   ance of instances between tasks .   Benchmark collection . The benchmark was   collected through a large community effort on   GitHub . Tasks were collected and contributed by   NLP practitioners who were either responding to   our public invitationor students who were encour-   aged to contribute as part of their class project .   Contributors were encouraged to be creative and   source the tasks from several resources : ( a ) exist-   ing public NLP datasets , ( b ) available intermediate   annotations in crowdsourcing experiments ( e.g. ,   paraphrasing questions or rating their quality dur-   ing crowdsourcing a QA dataset ) , or ( c ) synthetic   tasks that can be communicated to an average hu-   man in a few sentences ( e.g. , basic algebraic opera-   tions like number comparison , finding the longest   palindrome substring , etc . ) . When using existing   datasets or crowdsourcing annotations , contribu-   tors were encouraged to adopt the instructions used   to create this dataset whenever available . This was   done to ensure that the instructions were sufficient   to define the tasks to average human readers . Tasks   along with instructions and other meta information   were contributed as JSON files via GitHub pull re-   quests , which were reviewed by automated checks   and peers . We had 88 contributors from diverse   locations and backgrounds contribute to our reposi-   tory .   Quality control . Controlling the quality of this   community - contributed data was done in several   phases : ( 1 ) Upon creating a GitHub pull request   of the proposed task , it immediately went through   an automatic test . This process verified that the   introduced file contained the expected fields and   adhered to our desired properties ( e.g. , no duplicateinstances , the output labels are not heavily imbal-   anced , etc . ) and ( 2 ) The proposed task was then   peer - reviewed by 1–2 other expert contributors to   ensure the clarity and sufficiency of instruction con-   tent . The review process was done iteratively until   the reviewers were content with the quality of the   proposed instruction . Specifically , reviewers were   asked to verify that the instruction is clear and suf-   ficient for an average language speaker to solve the   underlying task ( evaluation instances ) while being   grammatical , fluent , and concise . On average , the   review of each GitHub pull request took about 4 –   6 iterations over the span of multiple days before   being merged . ( 3 ) Lastly , the added tasks were pre-   sented to crowdworkers in order to collect feedback   on the quality of the provided instructions , such as   typos , clarity , or other issues ( details in § A ) . Sub-   sequently , one of the authors used this feedback to   improve the task definitions of the instances . This   feedback was done only for English tasks , as find-   ing high - quality crowdworkers in other languages   is nontrivial ( Pavlick et al . , 2014 ) .   Diversity of tasks . Collecting tasks for S-   NIwas carefully supervised to cover a wide   variety of natural language understanding tasks , do-   mains , and languages . To better understand this di-   versity , we comprehensively categorize tasks along   three different dimensions :   • T T defines the nature of the mapping   from instance inputs to outputs ( e.g. , question   answering , classification , etc . ) .   • L indicates the language(s ) of the in-   stances .   • D indicates the domain(s ) to which   the text of the tasks belong to ( e.g. , politics ,   medicine , dialogue , etc . ) .   These different measures of categorization can be   used to study different senses of generalization . In   our empirical studies ( § 5 ) , we study generalization   along the axis of task types . We refer the reader   to Fig . 10 in the appendix for the distribution of   tasks among different task types , languages , and   domains .   Statistics . Table 2 shows various statistics for the   benchmark . In total , the dataset includes 1616 tasks   and 5 M instances . On average , each instruction is   paired with 2.8 positive and 2.4 negative examples .   The average definition length is 56.6 in words.5088   4 T k - I : Learning to Follow   Instructions at Scale   Defining Generalization to Unseen Tasks . Each   tasktis defined via its natural language instruction   I , and each task has a set of input / output instances   ( X , Y ) . A model Mis expected to produce the   output y , given the input xand the task instruction   I : M(I , x ) = y , for(x , y)∈(X , Y ) . In partic-   ular , we would like to evaluate model Mon tasks   that are notobserved ( i.e. , their instances were not   used for training M ) . The only source of signal   for learning the task at inference time is in - context   instructions Ithat contain a definition and demon-   stration examples of the task .   Tk - I .We introduce Tk - I , a   model that is meta - trained on S - NI for   solving tasks given their in - context instructions .   Previous work has shown the effectiveness of such   meta - training in improving model ’s ability to do in-   context learning with either prompts ( Zhong et al . ,   2021 ; Sanh et al . , 2022 ) or demonstration examples   ( Min et al . , 2022a ) . Because of the large variety   of tasks in S - NI , we are able to do this   multi - task meta - training at a larger scale than be-   fore . We conduct our experiments and analysis   based on the T5 model ( Raffel et al . , 2020 ) . Since   each instruction Iconsists of multiple elements as   described in our instruction schema ( § 3 ) , we map   these elements to textual format and append them   before the input instance . Fig . 8 in the appendix   shows how we encode the full instructions . We   study different combinations of these instruction   elements in § 7.2 . By default , we will use our most   effective instruction elements ( i.e. , task definition   and two positive examples ) unless otherwise speci-   fied . In the same manner , we train the multilingual   variant m Tk - I based on the mT5 model   ( Xue et al . , 2021).5 Benchmarking Cross - Task   Generalization with S - NI   Here we provide our recommended recipe for   benchmarking generalization via S - NI .   5.1 Evaluation Setup   An Evaluation Split of Unseen Tasks . We split   the large collection of tasks in S - NI into   two subsets : one for evaluation and the other for su-   pervision . For evaluation tasks , we fix a manually-   selected collection of 12 categories that represent   154 tasks . The large variety of tasks in S-   NIenables us to choose a diverse set of tasks   for evaluation – such as those at word , sentence ,   and document levels , covering both classification   and generation formats . Appendix G lists our eval-   uation tasks with examples for representative tasks .   For an efficient evaluation , we sample a maximum   of 100 instances for each task , which results in   15,310 testing instances in total . The remaining   tasks are used for training models .   Divided Tracks for English and X - lignual Tasks .   S - NI consists of tasks across multiple   languages , which enables evaluating the model ’s   generalization to unseen tasks not only in English   but also in other languages . Therefore , we divide   our evaluation tasks into two tracks : one for En-   glish cross - task generalization ( 119 tasks ) and the   other for cross - lingual cross - task generalization   ( 35 tasks ) . To the best of our knowledge , this is the   first study in cross - lingual cross - task generaliza-   tion ( i.e. , generalization to unseen tasks in different   languages ) . Fig . 11 and Fig . 12 in the appendix   contain the evaluation tasks for each track .   Evaluation Metrics . Due to the diversity of our   tasks and the open - ended generation nature of our   formulation , we adopt ROUGE - L ( Lin , 2004 ) for   reporting aggregated performance results . This is a   soft string overlap metric that can be applied to a   wide range of text generation tasks . We show that   the ranking from this metric correlates well with   accuracy for classification tasks in Appendix E. We   also conduct a human evaluation in § 6.2.50895.2 Baselines and Existing Models   Here we discuss a variety of baselines and com-   petitive models for our target application . See Ap-   pendix D for implementation details .   Heuristic baselines . We first evaluate the follow-   ing heuristics to evaluate the possible shortcuts in   the data . Copying Demo Output copies the output   of a random demonstration example . Since we bal-   ance the labels for our test tasks , the performance of   this baseline will roughly equal a random guess or   a majority baseline for classification tasks . Copy-   ing Instance Input copies the given instance input .   This strategy performs well on tasks where the   target output largely overlaps with the input ( e.g. ,   question rewriting , grammar error correction ) .   Off - the - shelf pretrained language models . We   evaluate existing LMs that are not fine - tuned with   instruction - specific data . Specifically , we evalu-   ate the 11B - parameter T5 ( Raffel et al . , 2020 ) as   a direct counterpart of Tk - I . Due to the   infilling pretraining objective of the original T5   model , it can not continue text well . Therefore ,   we evaluate its “ LM - adapted ” version , which is   further trained with a language modeling objec-   tive ( Lester et al . , 2021 ) . Additionally , we evaluate   GPT-3 ( Brown et al . , 2020 ) , a 175B - parameter au-   toregressive LM that has shown remarkable ability   in following demonstrations provided in its prompt .   Instruction - tuned models . In addition to our Tk-   I ( § 4 ) , we evaluate existing models that   are fine - tuned to follow language instructions . In   particular , we evaluate InstructGPT ( Ouyang et al . ,   2022 ) which uses reinforcement learning to incor-   porate human preferences into a GPT-3 pretrained   model , and T0 ( Sanh et al . , 2022 ) which finetunes   T5 on a collection of task prompts in P -   S ( Bach et al . , 2022 ) .   Upper bound estimates . We estimate an upper   bound on models ’ generalization to unseen tasks by   fine - tuning an oracle model on the tasks ’ labeled   instances . Since this model observes the hidden   instances of the evaluation tasks , it is , by definition ,   an estimated upper bound to our generalization-   based models . Specifically , we fine - tune a T5 - 11B   model on the 119 English evaluation tasks , and   a mT5 - 13B model on the 35 non - English tasks ,   with 1 K random training instances per task , without   overlap with the evaluation instances .   6 Experimental Results   6.1 Overall Results   Table 3 summarizes our overall benchmarking re-   sults . We use the same input encoding that contains   the most effective instructional elements ( task defi-   nition and two positive examples without the nega-   tive examples and explanations ) for all the methods .   To better understand models ’ generalization to dif-   ferent tasks , we also break down the performance   according to the task categories in Fig . 4 . We refer   the reader to Appendix H for more detailed analysis   on each individual task .   Instruction - tuning enables stronger generaliza-   tion to unseen tasks . Generally instruction - tuned   models perform better compared to their untuned   LM counterparts ( Tk - I vs. T5 - LM , In-   structGPT vs. GPT-3 ) and heuristic baselines . This   indicates models do learn to follow instructions by   finetuning on instruction data , and this can gen-   eralize to new instructions for unseen tasks . T0   is an exception , which is only slightly better than5090   T5 - LM . We suspect this is because the style of   prompting in T0 ’s training data is very different   from our style of instructions .   Our Tk - I outperforms InstructGPT .   OurTk - I and m Tk - I models ,   which are trained with a variety of tasks , gener-   alize best to unseen tasks for both English and   non - English tasks in all evaluation task categories .   InstructGPT also shows a great extent of general-   ization to our evaluation tasks . However , we want   to note it is not clear if InstructGPT ’s training data   overlaps with our evaluation tasks since their data   is unavailable .   There is a sizable gap for improvement . De-   spite the impressive performance of current models ,   there is a sizable gap between the generalization of   instruction - based models and the supervised train-   ing approach , leaving more room for improvement .   6.2 Human Evaluation   For language generation tasks , automatic metrics   are only an approximation of human judgments ;   we conduct a human evaluation to confirm the find-   ings so far . Specifically , we ask crowdworkers to   indicate if they prefer the predicted answer by the   model or the ground truth outputs for each instance   with ties being allowed ( see Appendix B for de-   tails ) . The resulting human evaluation metric indi-   cates how often model predictions were rated as at   least as good as our ground truth labels . The theo-   retical upper bound of this metric is 100 % when the   model is rated at least as good as the ground truth   for all the instances . The results of human evalua-   tion ( shown in Fig . 3 ) align quite well with our au-   tomatic metrics and confirm the human - perceived   quality of our models.7 Further Analysis   We conduct further analysis to understand the im-   portant factors for models to generalize across tasks .   Due to the computational cost , this analysis is done   on the English track and using the T5 - 3B check-   point , except for the experiments on model sizes .   7.1 Scaling Trends of Generalization   We study Tk - I ’s generalization perfor-   mance with respect to three scaling factors : the   number of training tasks , the number of instances   per task , and the model sizes . Fig . 5 presents the   performance change by scaling each of them .   More observed tasks improve the generalization .   We fine - tune Tk - I with different numbers   of tasks that are randomly sampled from the whole   training set ( Fig . 5a ) . The model generalization   performance grows log - linearlyas we increase   the set of tasks used for training . Previous work   ( Mishra et al . , 2022b ; Sanh et al . , 2022 ; Wei et al . ,   2022 ) has made similar observations on a much   smaller scale , while we show that this trend holds   even with 757 diverse training tasks .   A large number of training instances do not   help generalization . We then vary the number   of instances per task that are used for finetuning   ( Fig . 5b ) . While the conventional wisdom in super-   vised learning is that more training instances usu-   ally helps ( Banko and Brill , 2001 ; Sun et al . , 2017 ;   Hestness et al . , 2017 ) , in our setup , the model ’s   performance saturates when only 64 instances per   task are used for training . A large number of train-   ing instances would instead lead to longer training   time and risk overfitting to the training tasks.5091   Tuning larger models with instructions consis-   tently lead to gains . We study the effect of model   scaling by initializing Tk - I from differ-   ent sizes of pretrained T5 checkpoints , including   the small , base , large , xl and xxl sizes ( Fig . 5c ) . We   found that increasing the model sizes consistently   bring significant improvement ( log - linearly with   parameter size ) . This finding contradicts the claim   in Xu et al . ( 2022 ) that “ model size has little im-   pact on performance with an extremely large num-   ber of tasks . ” Combining Fig . 5(a ) and Fig . 5(c ) ,   one can create a correspondence between model   size and task size . For example , a T5 - large model   trained with 757 tasks can achieve comparable per-   formance ( 48.0 ROUGE - L ) to the T5 - 3B model   trained with 128 tasks ( 48.4 ROUGE - L ) , indicating   that increasing the diversity of training tasks is an   alternative to scaling model sizes.7.2 Instructing with Different Elements   We evaluate the performance of Tk - I un-   der different instructional elements .   Benefit of different instructional elements . As   shown in Fig . 1 , S - NI provides multiple   elements for instructing a task . We train multiple   models with different combinations of these ele-   ments . The diagonal cells of Table 4 show the   performance of our models when trained and eval-   uated on a particular instruction encoding . Based   on the diagonal numbers , including the task defi-   nition consistently helps the model to generalize   better . Moreover , combining the task definition   with positive demonstration examples yields fur-   ther improvement . However , adding more demon-   stration examples is negligible . Negative examples   help a little bit ; explanations decrease performance ,   which is consistent with the observations of Mishra   et al . ( 2022b ) and Lampinen et al . ( 2022 ) when5092the model is not large enough . Future work can   explore whether more powerful models can benefit   from these elements .   Generalization to different input encodings . We   further investigate whether a model trained on a par-   ticular encoding can generalize to other encodings .   This can be read from the non - diagonal cells of   Table 4 . The negative result here is that definition-   only models can not generalize to example - only   test encodings ; and similarly , example - only models   can not generalize to definition - only test encodings .   However , models trained on encodings that con-   tain both definition and examples are surprisingly   robust across different encoding variations .   8 Conclusion   We construct a large - scale benchmark consisting   of a diverse set of NLP tasks and their instructions .   This benchmark can serve as a rich playground for   training or evaluation of models that can generalize   to unseen tasks by following instructions . Further-   more , we train Tk - I using this data , and   demonstrate its capability to perform unseen tasks   to a surprising extent . We provide extensive anal-   ysis to understand the important factors for such   generalization . We hope our data and model will fa-   cilitate future work towards more general - purpose   models .   9 Limitations   While the presented data offers a notable variety   ( e.g. , diverse task types ) , its underlying distribu-   tions suffer from skews which should be addressed   in future work ( see Appendix F ) . On language di-   versity , the proposed benchmark is biased toward   English . On output diversity , the collected tasks   are generally still skewed to short responses , which   might reflect the distribution of the available tasks   in the field . This under - representation of the long-   tail of tasks poses a challenge for building general-   purpose models in the future . We hope future work   addresses such distributional imbalances . More-   over , we see natural extensions of the instruction-   following setup here in the context of other modali-   ties such as vision or speech .   Automatic evaluation of models ’ performance   is another challenge , considering the diverse set of   tasks in our benchmark , and many of them being   open - ended generation tasks . We use ROUGE - L as   an aggregated metric in this paper and find it as a   good proxy for the overall performance of the mod - els , aligning well with human evaluation . However ,   there are specific tasks for which ROUGE - L might   not serve as an effective proxy of quality ( such   as rewriting tasks or error correction tasks where   copying the input can result in a high ROUGE - L   score ) . We hope these issues will be addressed   with the development of more powerful evaluation   metrics for text generation .   In terms of computing power , we have experi-   mented with models that were accessible to us and   have made the resulting models publicly available .   We also acknowledge that there are larger models   that we were not able to train due to the limitations   of our computational budget .   Acknowledgments   We thank the anonymous reviewers , our colleagues   from AI2 and UWNLP , especially Matthew Peters   for his encouraging conversations that motivated   this project . We also thank the student contributors   of Arizona State University ’s CSE 576 “ Topics   in NLP ” course and all other contributors to our   data repository . All experiments were run on AI2 ’s   Beaker GPU clusters and Google ’s research TPUs .   This work was supported in part by ONR MURI   N00014 - 18 - 1 - 2670 , ONR N00014 - 18 - 1 - 2826 , and   DARPA MCS N66001 - 19 - 2 - 4031 grants .   References5093509450955096   A Crowdsourcing Human Feedback   We use Amazon Mechanical Turk ( AMT ) to crowd-   source feedback on the quality of the collected   instructions . We limit our crowdworkers to pre-   dominantly English - speaking countries ( USA , UK ,   Canada , and Australia ) , and to those who have fin-   ished over 1 K HITs with an approval rating of over   99 % .   Fig . 6 shows the crowdsourcing template used   for collecting crowdworker feedback on our in-   structions . We show the instructions ( the task defi-   nition , along with positive and negative examples )   followed by forms for their feedback . We allow   the crowdworkers to give us a qualitative measure   of their perceived quality as well as text boxes for   more concrete items ( such as typos or phrasings   that may benefit from more clear articulation ) . For   each task , we solicit the feedback of 3 crowdwork-   ers and then use this feedback to improve the task   definitions or the examples for each task .   B Crowdsourcing Human Judgements of   Generation Quality   We perform a crowdsourcing experiment on Ama-   zon Mechanical Turk ( AMT ) to assess the quality   of the generated responses of models . Specifically ,   we ask crowdworkers to indicate if they prefer the   predicted answer by the model or the ground truth   outputs for each instances . The annotation inter-   face is shown in Fig . 7 . It is essentially the same   template used for the quality assessment of the   dataset ( § A ) , except that here the crowdworkers   are shown a pair of responses for each instances —   the reference text ( from our benchmark ) and the   one generated by the model — turning the task into   acomparative evaluation .   For each instance , we obtain annotations from   an annotator as to whether they prefer either re-   sponse over the other or they would rate them   equally ( “ tie ” ) . The model receives a credit of 1.0   if the worker favors the model ’s prediction at least   as well as the ground truth label ( otherwise , the   model would receive a credit of 0.0 ) . The overall   accuracy score for the model is computed by av-   eraging instance - level scores . To reduce the costs ,   the human evaluation of our models is done on 60   randomly selected tasks ( about half of our evalu-   ation tasks ) , and on 10 random instances of each   task . Since it is non - trivial to find non - English speak-   ing crowdworkers ( Pavlick et al . , 2014 ) , this eval-   uation was restricted to English language tasks .   Therefore , since our task is focused on English   tasks , we required workers to be based in a country   with a population predominantly of native English   speakers ( USA , Canada , UK , and Australia ) and   have completed at least 5000 HITs with ≥99 % as-   signment approval rate .   The resulting human - evaluation metric indicates   how often were model predictions equal or pre-   ferred to our ground truth labels . In this evaluation ,   the theoretical upper bound is 100 % where the   model is rated at least as well as the ground truth .   The results of human evaluation are shown in the   bottom row of Fig . 3 .   C Instruction Schema   Our instruction schema is based on that of   NI ( Mishra et al . , 2022b ) , but we sim-   plify it to make data collection easier . Our   D field serves as the union of Mishra   et al . ( 2022b ) ’s D , T A ,   and E & C . Additionally , we   drop their T andP as their content is   most often covered by D .   D Model Implementation Details   T5 experiments . We use T5 for training our Tk-   I , estimating the performance of the su-   pervised approach and conducting analysis .   Our experiments that finetune the T5 - 11B model   are conducted based on the Google ’s T5 library   and we use their T5.1.1.xxl checkpointby default ,   which is pre - trained only on C4.These experi-   ments are run on Google V3 - 256 TPUs using a   batch size of 1,048,576 tokens ( 1,024 examples ) , a   constant learning rate of 1e-5 and a total of 1000   steps . Each training run takes 4 hours to complete .   Our analyses that use T5 models smaller than   11B parameters are conducted based on Hug-   gingface ’s transformers library and model check-   points(Wolf et al . , 2020 ) on GPU machines.5097   When fine - tuning models , we train them for two   epochs with a batch size of 16 and a constant learn-   ing rate of 1e-5 . The maximum input length is   set to 1024 , and the maximum output length is set   to 128 . These experiments are conducted with 8   A100 GPUs with 48 GB GPU memory per each . We   use DeepSpeedfor model parallelization , with   bfloat16 precision enabled to save the GPU mem - ory . Each training run takes 6 hours to complete .   GPT-3 and InstructGPT experiments . We use   the OpenAI APIfor conducting the GPT-3 ex-   periments . We use their “ davinci ” engine for the   GPT-3 language model experiments and their “ text-   davinci-001 ” engine for the InstructGPT experi-   ments . When making the requests , we set the tem-   perature as 0 , top_p as 1 and the maximum gen-5098eration length as 128 . Due to the high cost , we   randomly sample 20 instances from each of our   119 test tasks to estimate the performance of GPT-   3 and InstructGPT . All API requests were made on   May 30 , 2022 .   Encoding instruction with input For every   problem setup , we map a given instruction Iand   an input instance xinto a textual format , obtaining   enc(I , x ) . Each instruction Iconsists of multiple   elements as described in our instruction schema   ( § 3 ) . We map each element of the instruction to a   textual format and prepend it to the input instance .   Fig . 8 shows how we encode the full instruction .   We study different combinations of these instruc-   tion elements in § 7.2 . The encoded instance is   then fed to an encoder - decoder model to predict y :   M : enc(I , x)→y .   E Evaluation Metrics   We adopt ROUGE - L as our automatic evaluation   metric in this work . However , it remains a question   for how much ROUGE - L can reflect model ’s per-   formance on different tasks . Although we can not   test ROUGE - L ’s correlation with each task - specific   metric of the tasks included in our data , we do in-   vestigate whether ROUGE - L can be used for clas-   sification tasks . Fig . 9 plots the ROUGE - L scores   and accuracy of several models on different types   of tasks . These task types are usually regarded as   classification tasks and have very short ground truth   output . We can see that for all these task types , the   trend of ROUGE - L correlates well with the trend of   accuracy . For some task types , we do see some gap   between these two metrics . The reason is becausethere are some generation tasks categorized into   these types . These results indicate that ROUGE-   L is a good proxy for accuracy for classification   tasks .   F Distribution of Tasks   As is described in § 3 , S - NI provides the   annotation for categorizing tasks along three differ-   ent dimensions : task type , language , and domain .   Fig . 10 shows the distribution of tasks among these   three dimensions . This meta - information can be   used to study model ’s generalization ability in dif-   ferent senses . Despite the diversity of the data , we   acknowledge the skew toward certain tasks and lan-   guages , which we leave to be addressed by future   work .   G Evaluation Tasks   Table 5 lists the 12 task categories used for our eval-   uation and all the tasks included in each category   ( introduced in § 5.1 ) . To provide a better sense of   what those tasks look like , we also select one rep-   resentative task from each category and list them   in Tables 6–17 . Due to the large number of tasks   in our dataset , we can not list all 1,616 tasks in this   paper . We refer the reader to our dataset .   H Performance Improvement per   Evaluation Task   To provide more detailed analysis of Tk - I   on each individual task , Fig . 11 presents the   per - task improvement of our Tk - I ( 3B )   model over the best of two heuristic baselines on   the English evaluation tasks , and Fig . 12 presents   the per - task improvement of the m Tk - I   model on the cross - lingual evaluation tasks . For   most of the evaluation tasks , we see a notable ex-   tent of generalization by T k - I .50995100510151025103510451055106510751085109