  Kaifa Zhao , Le Yu , Shiyao Zhou , Jing Li , Xiapu Luo ,   Yat Fei Aemon Chiu , Yutong Liu   Abstract   Privacy protection raises great attention on both   legal levels and user awareness . To protect user   privacy , countries enact laws and regulations   requiring software privacy policies to regulate   their behavior . However , privacy policies are   written in natural languages with many legal   terms and software jargon that prevent users   from understanding and even reading them . It   is desirable to use NLP techniques to analyze   privacy policies for helping users understand   them . Furthermore , existing datasets ignore law   requirements and are limited to English . In this   paper , we construct the first Chinese privacy   policy dataset , namely CA4P-483 , to facili-   tate the sequence labeling tasks and regulation   compliance identification between privacy poli-   cies and software . Our dataset includes 483   Chinese Android application privacy policies ,   over 11 K sentences , and 52 K fine - grained an-   notations . We evaluate families of robust and   representative baseline models on our dataset .   Based on baseline performance , we provide   findings and potential research directions on   our dataset . Finally , we investigate the poten-   tial applications of CA4P-483combing reg-   ulation requirements and program analysis .   1 Introduction   A privacy policy is a legal document written in   natural language that discloses how and why a   controller collects , shares , uses , and stores user   data ( GDPR , 2016 ; PISS , 2020 ; NISSTC , 2020 ) .   Privacy policies help users understand whether   their privacy will be abused and decide whether   to use the product . However , privacy policies are   tedious , making it hard for users to read and under-   stand them ( Staff , 2011 ) . Natural language process-   ing techniques achieve big success on understand-   ing document semantics ( Yang et al . , 2021 ; Wen   et al . , 2021 ; Ding et al . , 2020 ) . Thus , it is neces - sary to apply natural language processing to ana-   lyze the privacy policies ( Yu et al . , 2016 ; Andow   et al . , 2020 ; Yu et al . , 2015 ; Fan et al . , 2020 ) and   help users be aware of apps ’ privacy access behav-   ior ( Zhou et al . , 2021 ) .   Chinese software privacy policy processing   ( CSP ) task is a sequence labeling problem that   recognizes privacy - related components in the sen-   tences . CSPhas two main unique features . First ,   privacy policies contain an amount of information   inside ( Yu et al . , 2018 ) , such as how the app stores   user data , and how to contact app developer . In   our dataset , we concentrate on data access - related   sentences as the sentences directly related to user   privacy . Second , privacy policies are written in   a legally binding professional language and con-   tain software jargon . Thus , it requires strong back-   ground ( Zhou et al . , 2022a , b ) to understand the   statements inside . Both characteristics prevent   users from understanding the privacy policies . A   well - annotated dataset can facilitate building auto-   matic privacy policy analysis tool and further help   users protect their privacy .   Although privacy policy datasets have been pro-   posed recently ( Wilson et al . , 2016 ; Zimmeck et al . ,   2019 ) , labels in existing datasets are coarse - grained   ( i.e. , sentence - level annotations ( Wilson et al . ,   2016 ) ) and limited to few privacy practices ( Zim-   meck et al . , 2019 ) . Besides , existing datasets only   include English privacy policies , which limits the   application of these datasets in regions with other   languages . We construct a fine - grained Chinese   dataset for software privacy policy analysis .   In this work , we focus on Android application   privacy policies as Android possesses the largest   share of mobile operating systems ( statcounter ,   2022 ) and a large number of Android privacy data   leaks have been revealed ( Shrivastava and Ku-   mar , 2021 ; Sivan et al . , 2019 ) . Unlike previous   work ( Wilson et al . , 2016 ; Zimmeck et al . , 2019 ) ,   we deal with the problem using sequence label-10266ing methods , and pay special attention to Chinese   privacy policies . The motivations come from the   following four aspects :   First , worldwide regulation departments enact   laws ( NISSTC , 2020 ; PISS , 2020 ; GDPR , 2016 ;   CCPA , 2016 ; CLPRC , 2016 ) to regulate the soft-   ware ’s behaviors and protect users ’ privacy . The   laws require the software to clarify how and why   they need to access user data . Analyzing privacy   policies can help users understand how app pro-   cess their data and identify whether apps comply   with laws . Second , for sequence labeling tasks ,   CSPaims to identify how and why the software   collects , shares , and manages users ’ data according   to regulations . CSPcan be abstracted as identify-   ing components in the privacy policy documents ,   such as data type and the purpose of using user   data . NLP techniques can help automatically ana-   lyze privacy policies . Third , existing privacy policy   analysis research is limited to English and totally   omits other languages . With over 98.38 billion   app downloads ( Statista , 2022 ) and privacy - related   regulations enacted in China , it is necessary and   urgent to research CSP . Last but not least , recent   research in other communities , such as software en-   gineering ( Yu et al . , 2016 ; Nema et al . , 2022 ) and   cyber security ( Andow et al . , 2020 , 2019 ) , demon-   strates requirements for analyzing privacy policies   to help the analyst identify whether the apps ’ be-   havior is consistent with privacy policies .   In this work , we make the following efforts to   advance CSP :   First , we construct a novel large - scale human-   annotated Chinese Android a pplication privacy   policy dataset , namely CA4P-483 . Specifi-   cally , we manually visit the software markets ,   such as Google Play ( Google , 2022a ) and App-   Gallery ( Huawei , 2022a ) , check the provided pri-   vacy policy website , and download the Chinese   version if available . We finally collect 483 doc-   uments . To determine the labels in the privacy   policy analysis scenario , we read through Chinese   privacy - related regulations and summarize seven   components ( § 2.2 ) . We annotate all occurrences   of components in 11,565 sentences from 483 doc-   uments . Unlike paragraph - level annotations in ex-   isting privacy policy datasets ( Wilson et al . , 2016 ) ,   CA4P-483 annotates character - level corpus .   Second , based on CA4P-483 , we summarize   families of representative baselines for Chinese se-   quence labeling . In detail , we first evaluate the per - formance of several classic sequence labeling mod-   els on our dataset , including Conditional Random   Forest ( CRF ) ( Kudo , 2005 ) , Hidden Markov Model   ( HMM ) ( Morwal et al . , 2012 ) , BiLSTM ( Graves   and Schmidhuber , 2005 ) , BiLSTM - CRF ( Lample   et al . , 2016 ) , and BERT - BiLSTM - CRF ( Devlin   et al . , 2018 ) . Recent work shows lattice knowledge   improves the performance of Chinese sequence la-   beling tasks . We involve lexicon - based models ,   such as Lattice - LSTM ( Zhang and Yang , 2018 ) .   Third , we investigate potential applications of   CA4P-483 . Combining law knowledge , we first   identify whether the privacy policy violates reg-   ulation requirements based on CA4P-483 . We   also identify whether the app behaves consistently   with privacy policy statements combing software   analysis ( Zhao et al . , 2021 ; Zhou et al . , 2020 ) .   The contributions of this work are three - fold :   •To the best of our knowledge , we construct   the first Chinese privacy policy dataset , namely   CA4P-483 , integrating abundant fine - grained an-   notations .   •We experimentally evaluate and analyze the re-   sults of different families of sequence labeling   baseline models on our dataset . We also summa-   rize difficulties in our dataset , and provide find-   ings and further research topics on our dataset .   •We investigate potential applications of   CA4P-483 to regulate privacy policies with law   knowledge and program analysis technologies .   2 Dataset Construction   2.1 Dataset collection   We manually collect the Chinese privacy policies   from Android application markets . According to   application market requirements ( Huawei , 2022b ;   Google , 2022b ) , developers must provide privacy   policies to claim their user data access behavior and   to ensure apps will not violate laws or regulations .   Since privacy policies are publicly available for   users to understand the apps ’ access of personal   data , three authors of this paper manually access   the most popular apps in markets and visit their   privacy policy websites provided at the moment   ( January 2021 ) . We use html2text ( Alir3z4 , 2011 )   to extract context . Finally , we use tagtog ( Cejuela   et al . , 2014 ) for document annotation .   Next , we annotate CA4P-483 based on the   law requirements . Specifically , we analyze Chi-   nese privacy - related laws and regulations ( NISSTC,10267   2020 ; PISS , 2020 ; of China et al . , 2019 ; Committee ,   2022 ) , and find requirements for apps ’ privacy pro-   cess behavior . For example , GB / T41391 - 2022 Ar-   ticle 4.n ) claims that " developers should expressly   state the purpose of applying or collecting infor-   mation to the subject of personal information . " Fi-   nally , we summarize seven types of labels related   to requirements for apps ’ access to user data .   2.2 Fine - grained annotations   For each privacy policy , we concentrate on the sen-   tences that describe the data process behavior . Af-   ter locating the sentences , we annotate seven com-   ponents , i.e. , the controller , data entity , collection ,   sharing , condition , purpose , and receiver .   Data controller . According to regulation require-   ments , the data controller is the party that deter-   mines the purpose and means of personal data pro-   cessing . A data controller could be the app ( first   party ) or the third party . As is shown in Fig.1 , data   controllers are " third - party platforms " in Fig.1(a )   while that is " we " in Fig.1(b ) . Thus , we annotate   data controllers according to sentence semantics ,   i.e. , who is responsible for processing the data .   Data entity . Data entities are any information   that can identify or reflect the activities of a natu-   ral person ( PISS , 2020 ) . Recent research ( Cai and   Chen , 2012 ; Shokri et al . , 2017 ) demonstrates the   probability of combining various information to   infer and even locate a specific person . Thus , we   annotate all data nouns or noun phrases that are   requested in privacy policies , including sensitiveinformation , such as device i d , and normal infor-   mation , such as device type .   Collection . Collection actions are verbs that de-   scribe how controllers access data , such as gather   ( 收集 ) , obtain ( 获取 ) .   Sharing . Sharing actions are verbs that indicate   whether the data controller will distribute data to   others . Although both Sharing and Collection de-   scribe how the party access user data , we difference   them according to the requirements of laws on the   action , such as Article 5 and 9.2 in ( PISS , 2020 ) .   Condition . Condition describes the situation   where the data controller will access personal data .   Laws require data controllers to inform users under   what conditions their data will be processed . For   example , bank apps may require the users ’ identifi-   cation information when activating bank account .   Purpose . Purpose should claim why the data con-   troller processes user data . Laws enact specific re-   quirements for user data access . For example , PISS   Article 4.d ) requires controllers to clearly state pur-   pose of processing data . Purpose can also help the   users understand why the app collects their data   and further determine whether to give the consent   as is shown in Fig.1(a ) .   Data receiver . Data receiver describes the parties   that receive user data . Laws not only ask apps to   clarify who will get shared data ( PISS , 2020 ) but   also restrict the data receivers ’ behavior ( NISSTC ,   2020 ) , such as why processing user data.102682.3 Human annotation process   Our privacy policy annotation consists of two   phases : coarse - grained annotation and fine - grained   annotation . Coarse - grained annotation labels pri-   vacy policies at paragraph level following previous   work ( Wilson et al . , 2016 ) . Fine - grained annota-   tion labels our defined components at the word   level based on coarse - grained annotation .   For the first phase , three authors of this paper ,   who have researched privacy policies and software   engineering for over eight and three years , label ten   privacy policies for reference and record a video   instruction to guide annotators . Then , we hire thirty   undergraduates in our university to annotate the   dataset . The three instructors train each annotator   for at least four hours to be familiar with the dataset   and requirements . Students are asked to annotate   1000 Android apps ’ privacy policies in Chinese and   each privacy policy should be analyzed for at least   30 minutes to ensure quality . Each privacy policy is   allocated to at least four annotators . Finally , three   instructors inspect each annotation .   For the second phase , we select two undergradu-   ates , who coarse - grained annotate the documents   with high precision , to conduct the fine - grained   annotation . Specifically , we select 483 documents   that are well coarse - grained annotated after inspec-   tion . Instructors first annotate ten documents to   lead undergraduates to annotate . The annotators   also keep discussing with instructors once the role   of components in sentences are unclear . Each an-   notator is required to label each privacy policy for   at least 30 minutes to guarantee the dataset quality .   Finally , the instructors analyze the annotations   and use Fleiss ’ Kappa metrics ( Cohen , 1960 ; Wil-   son et al . , 2016 ) to evaluate the agreements . Table 1   shows the average Kappa value ( 77.20 % ) satisfies   the substantial agreement , i.e. , Kaapa value lies in   0.61 - 0.80 , and four components achieve almost per-   fect agreement ( 0.81 - 1.00 ) . The Condition , which   only gets moderate agreement , is caused by the   overlap between labels ( details in Appendix 9.3 ) .   2.4 Dataset statistics and comparison   We conduct statistical analysis and show the results   in Table 1 . CA4P-483 is split into training , devel-   opment , and test set . Table 1 also gives details of   the number of different labels in each set . Table 1   shows that the average length of condition and pur-   pose is much longer than other corpora as the two   types are generally in the form of clauses .   We compare CA4P-483 with related datasets in   Table 2 . We first compare our corpus with Chinese   sequence labeling datasets , such as MSRA ( Zhang   et al . , 2006 ) , OntoNotes ( Weischedel et al . ,   2011 ) , Weibo ( Peng and Dredze , 2016 ) , PeopleDi-   ary ( Zhang and Chen , 2017 ) , Resume ( Zhang and   Yang , 2018 ) , CLUENER2020 ( Xu et al . , 2020 ) , and   CNERTA ( Sui et al . , 2021 ) . We also involve widely   used English sequence labeling datasets , namely   Twitter-2015 ( Zhang et al . , 2018 ) and Twitter-   2017 ( Lu et al . , 2018 ) . We also consider privacy   policy datasets , namely Online Privacy Policies   ( OPP-115 ) ( Wilson et al . , 2016 ) and Android app   privacy policies ( APP-350 ) ( Zimmeck et al . , 2019 ) .   We first compare the size and classes in different   datasets . Table 2 shows that CA4P-483 contains   abundant semantics , i.e. , CA4P-483 has seven   annotation classes that are larger than most other   datasets ( seven out of nine ) . For privacy policy-   related datasets , the comparison is conducted with   the number of documents as one privacy policy cor-   responds to one app . OPP-115 annotates at the sen-   tence level , and APP-350 only annotates data con-   troller , data entities , and modifiers . Since APP-350   specifies data entities into 16 categories , APP-350   exhibits more number of classes than CA4P-483 .   To summarize , CA4P-483 is the first and largest   Chinese Android privacy policy dataset with abun-   dant semantic labels .   3 Task and Experiment Setup   3.1 Task description   CSPfigures out who collects orshares what kind   ofdata towhom , under which kind of condition ,   andfor what . The underlined words correspond to   each type of annotations . As CSPconcentrates10269   on data access - related sentences , we first locate   the sentences based on data collection and shar-   ing words ( Andow et al . , 2020 ; Yu et al . , 2016 ) .   We summarize the word list based on laws , app   market requirements and previous works ( Yu et al . ,   2016 ; Andow et al . , 2019 , 2020 ) ( detailed in Ap-   pendix 9.1 ) . Given the sentences C = c , c , ... , c   and its labels L = l , l , ... , l , where cdenotes   thei - th Chinese characters and ldenotes the c ’s   label , the task is to identify sequence labels .   3.2 Summarize models   This section introduces baseline methods for se-   quence labeling task on CA4P-483 .   3.2.1 Probabilistic models   Hidden Markov Model ( HMM ): HMM(Freitag   and McCallum , 2000 ) is one of the most classic   probabilistic models and is applied as our baselines .   Condition Random Field ( CRF ): CRF(Lafferty   et al . , 2001 ) aggregates the advantages of HMM   and counters the label bias problems .   3.2.2 Neural network models   BiLSTM : BiLSTM(Graves and Schmidhuber ,   2005 ) uses neural network to learn a mapping rela-   tion from sentences to labels through the nonlinear   transformation in high - dimensional space .   BiLSTM - CRF : BiLSTM - CRFuses BiLSTM as   a encoder to map the sentences in to a hingh dimen-   sion vector and uses CRF as a decoder .   BERT - BiLSTM - CRF : Since BiLSTM - CRF is   still limited to the word vector presentation , BERT - BiLSTM - CRF(Dai et al . , 2019 ) uses BERT as a   feature extractor and takes advantage of BiLSTM   and CRF for sequence labeling .   3.2.3 Lattice enhanced models   As Chinese words are not naturally separated by   space , character - based methods omit the informa-   tion hidden in word sequences . Thus , lattice - based   methods that integrate lattice information are pro-   posed for Chinese sequence labeling and achieve   the promised performance .   LatticeLSTM : LatticeLSTM(Zhang and Yang ,   2018 ) takes inputs as the character sequence to-   gether with all character subsequences that match   the words in a predefined lexicon dictionary .   3.3 Setup and implementation details   We evaluate baselines on an Ubuntu 20.04 server   with 5 NVIDIA GeForce 3090 ( 24 GB memory for   each ) , 512 GB memory , and an Intel Xeon 6226R   CPU . Next , we present our implementation details .   For HMM , the number of states , i.e. , class num-   ber in our dataset with the BIO tag , is set as 22 ,   and the number of observations , i.e. , the number   of different characters , is set as 1756 , which is de-   fault value . For CRF , we use the default settings   in CRF++ . For BiLSTM and BiLSTM - CRF , em-   bedding size is 128 , learning rate is 0.001 , and we   train models using 30 epochs with a batch size of   64 . For BERT - BiLSTM - CRF , we use the Chinese   bert - basepretrained model and fine tune it on our   training data . The BiLSTM is set with 128 hidden10270   layer and a learning rate of 1e-5 . BERT - BiLSTM-   CRF model is trained on our dataset with default   settingswhere the batch size is 64 , learning rate   is1e−5 ) , dropout rate is 0.5 , gradient clip is 0.5 ,   and early stop strategy is " stop if no decrease " . For   Lattice - LSTM , we use the same lattice provided in   ( Zhang and Yang , 2018 ) .   4 Evaluation   In this section , we evaluate baseline methods on   all 18,579 sentences that are divided into training ,   development , and testing sets as detailed in Table 2 .   Following previous research ( Wilson et al . , 2016 ;   Sui et al . , 2021 ) , we apply precision ( P ) , recall ( R ) ,   and F1 - score ( F1 ) to evaluate baselines .   Table 4 shows the overall performance of fam-   ilies of baselines on CA4P-483 . Table 4 shows   that BiLSTM - CRF achieves the most promising   performance , which may benefit from the enhanced   presentation ability of bidirectional LSTM and   CRF for capturing the context information . Lattice-   LSTM performs a strong representation of captur-   ing lattice information , while some clauses in our   labels may mislead the model learning the patterns .   We analyze the identification performance of   each component to investigate the challenges and   limitations of CA4P-483 . Table 3 demonstrates   the detailed performance of baselines , i.e. , CRF-   based models , BERT - based models , and Lattice-   based models . Besides , we also compare the perfor-   mance with manual agreements to demonstrate task   difficulties . Table 3 demonstrates that BiLSTM-   CRF and Lattice - LSTM achieve over 90 % perfor-   mance on Receiver because the Receiver possesses   few overlaps with other labels and is in the format   of words . Collect andshare only achieve around   60 % precision and F1 - score because the two types   of entities perform some overlapping , as is shown   in Fig.1 and Fig.5 . Table 3 shows that BiLSTM-   CRF achieves better precision on Condition than   Lattice - LSTM , which may be caused by the fact   thatCondition andPurpose are mainly in the for-   mat of attributive clauses rather than words .   Next , we analyze the confusion matrix of   BiLSTM - CRF results that performs the best on   CA4P-483 . In Fig.2 , the depth of background   color denotes the proportion of classification , the   darker the color the higher the proportion , and the   digit denotes the number of classification results .   Fig.2 indicates that most of the misclassification   samples are related to Condition .10271   To have a deep understanding of divergences   between ground truth and predictions , we inspect   the misclassifications . We find that the algorithm   may fail to identify Condition s , which are in the   adverbial clause as shown in Fig.3(a ) where the   highlighting for Chinese is ground truth and high-   lighting for English is prediction results . Besides ,   when the data controller is the user , as is shown in   Fig.3(b ) , the algorithms fail to distinguish Purpose   andCondition . More illustrations in Appendix 9.3   also reveal that models need to be well designed   to learn deep semantic information , such as dis-   tinguishing overlapping among components , and   distinguishing Purpose in modifiers .   5 Case Study   In this section , we will present cases of potential   applications of CA4P-483 , such as whether pri-   vacy policies comply with regulatory requirements   and whether privacy policies is consistent with the   apps ’ functionalities .   Regulation compliance identification . Chinese   privacy - related laws ( PISS , 2020 ; NISSTC , 2020 ;   CLPRC , 2016 ) ask developers to clearly claim pur-   pose conditions for processing user privacy data .   We first investigate the distribution of annotations   inCA4P-483 . Fig.4 sketches the box plot of   the frequency of components in each privacy pol-   icy . Fig.4 indicates that some privacy policies   claim data processing without clarifying the pur-   pose and condition , i.e. , the minimum frequency   ofData is positive while that of Purpose is zero .   We manually inspect privacy policies . We find   that the privacy policies , whose package name is   com.yitong.weather , claim the app collects users ’   data while omitting to give the purposes or con-   ditions of data access , which violates regulation   requirements . Thus , CA4P-483 can facilitate the   research in the area of privacy compliance identifi-   cation ( Andow et al . , 2019 ; Barth et al . , 2022 ) .   App behavior consistency identification . To im-   prove the security of the Android community , re-   searchers design systems ( Andow et al . , 2020 ; Yu   et al . , 2018 ) to identify the consistency between   privacy policies and app behaviors to prevent apps   from abusing user data or conducting malicious   behavior . One popular method to check the app ’s   behavior is dynamic analysis ( Yan and Yin , 2012 ) ,   i.e. , running the app on the device and checking the   loginformation . To investigate the application of   CA4P-483 in security community , we first iden-   tify the privacy policies without purpose orcondi-   tioncomponents . Then , we install the app on one   smartphone , manually interact with the app and try   our best to trigger all possible functions in the app   by clicking every visible buttons . We use logcat   to capture the app ’s running information . We find   that the app ( i d : com.chengmi.signin ) requests de-   vice storage to use the app ’s functionalities while   no condition - related statements are claimed in its   privacy policy . With more intelligent automatic   software engineering techniques , CA4P-483 can   facilitate the research in this area , and more vulner-   abilities in the consistency between app behavior   and privacy policy could be investigated .   6 Discussion   In this section , we first discuss difficulties in   CA4P-483 . Then , we propose potential research   topics on CA4P-483 . Finally , we discuss limi-   tations of CA4P-483 . Besides , we also discuss   ethical concerns in Appendix 9.2.102726.1 Dataset difficulties   Based on evaluation results in § 4 and related work ,   we raise the following difficulties : 1 ) How to dis-   tinguish overlaps between components ? 2 ) How   to effectively deal with length variation of compo-   nents ? 3 ) Difficulties in semantic analysis .   Different from traditional sequence labeling   tasks , components in our data set may contain other   components . One scenario is the Purpose or Con-   ditions maybe used to decorate the data , for exam-   ple , " We will collect your login information ( 我们   会收集您的登录信息 ) " where the login may be   understood as the purpose of information . Since   traditional sequence labeling methods predict one   character with one label , it is hard to distinguish   components overlaps . One possible solution is us-   ing multi - model algorithms ( Sui et al . , 2021 ) that   demonstrate effectiveness for distinguishing bound-   aries between entities . Similar to traditional news   or social media datasets that use voice or images as   additional information , integrating apps ’ analysis   results help distinguish different components .   Second , existing sequence labeling tasks mainly   concentrate on entity recognition , while practical   applications may require labeling clauses for fur-   ther analysis . Table 1 shows that average length   of components in CA4P-483 varies from 2.03 to   19.24 . CSPnot only require identifying words but   also ask the models to identify the role of clauses .   The semantic analysis of privacy policies is still   a difficulty . Laws require apps to clearly clarify   how apps collect and share user data . Privacy poli-   cies can claim that apps will share data with third   parties or third parties will collect user data . In this   way , it becomes essential to understand the con-   text to distinguish the controller and action type . It   could be a solution to use multi - model algorithms   integrating program analysis to improve the per-   formance ; however , identifying the third party and   app itself remains a challenge in program analysis .   6.2 Further directions   TheCA4P-483 enables research in directions of   interest to natural language processing , privacy pro-   tection , and cyber security ( Zhu et al . , 2022a , b ) .   We propose some potential research interests for   further work below .   Emotional analysis in privacy policies . Existing   research ( Andow et al . , 2019 ) figures out privacy   policies may conflict among contexts . For example ,   the privacy policy may claim NOT to collect userdata in one sentence while claiming to access user   data in other sections . Existing methods ( Andow   et al . , 2019 , 2020 ; Yu et al . , 2018 ) use negative   words to identify whether conflicts exist in the pri-   vacy policy and ignore complications like a double   negative . In Chinese privacy policy , negative repre-   sentations are more complicated ( Liu , 2012 ) . Thus ,   emotional analysis can help analysts better under-   stand the semantics of privacy policies ..   Privacy compliance detection . CA4P-483 pro-   vides detailed labels for data usage , including the   purpose and conditions . It is necessary to investi-   gate the detailed requirements of laws and further   identify whether existing privacy policies violation .   Cyber security investigation . Privacy policies   ought to reflect the functionalities of apps . Some   apps may conceal the malicious behavior in their   functionalities and do not claim the behavior in   privacy policies . CA4P-483 can help identify the   consistency between apps ’ functionalities and be-   havior by combing natural language process algo-   rithms and code analysis .   6.3 Limitations   CA4P-483 provides detailed annotations for data   access statements in privacy policies . However ,   analyzing privacy policies using CA4P-483 de-   pends on the performance of locating data access-   related sentences . We use data collection and shar-   ing words to locate the sentences . However , some   Purpose and Condition claims maybe given as an   enumeration format , such as " we will not share   your personal data under the following conditions " .   CA4P-483 is limited when capturing information   in enumeration format .   Privacy policies possess timeliness . App devel-   opers should provide a privacy policies when pub-   lishing the apps . When the apps ’ functionality up-   dates , the privacy policies ought to be updated ac-   cordingly . The data set is limited to the timestamp   we collected . When combining our dataset with   program analysis , this factor should be considered .   7 Related Work   Prior privacy policy datasets are all English and   omit other languages . OPP-115 ( Wilson et al . ,   2016 ) collects 115 English websites ’ privacy   policies and makes annotations at the sentence   level . OPP-115 designs labels based on previous   works ( McDonald and Cranor , 2008 ; Staff , 2011 ) .   APP-350 ( Zimmeck et al . , 2019 ) gathers Android10273apps ’ privacy policies written in English . APP-350   only conducts limited annotations , including two   types of data controllers , namely first party and   third party , thirteen types of specific data , and two   types of modifiers , i.e. , do and do not .   Existing Chinese sequence labeling datasets are   generally gathered from News ( Zhang et al . , 2006 ;   Zhang and Chen , 2017 ; Sui et al . , 2021 ) and social   media ( Peng and Dredze , 2016 ; Weischedel et al . ,   2011 ; Zhang and Yang , 2018 ) . The datasets include   abundant corpus , but their annotations are limited   to location , person name , and organization . Even   though CLUENER2020 ( Xu et al . , 2020 ) expands   the labels , such as game , gvoerment , book , the   datasets are still hard to be applied in specific down-   stream tasks . CNERTA ( Sui et al . , 2021 ) includes   another media data , i.e. , voice data , to improves the   sequence labeling performance .   8 Conclusion   This paper introduces the first Chinese Android   application privacy policy dataset , CA4P-483 .   CA4P-483 contains fine - grained annotations   based on requirements of privacy - related laws and   regulations . The dataset can help promote natural   language processing research on practical down-   stream tasks . We also conduct experimental eval-   uations of popular baselines on our dataset and   propose potential research directions based on the   result analysis . We also conduct case studies to   investigate potential applications of our dataset and   potential application of our dataset to help software   engineering and cyber security protect user privacy .   In the future , we hope that we can build new mod-   els for CA4P-483 to counter the challenges .   Acknowledgements   We thank the anonymous reviewers for their insight-   ful comments . This work was partially supported   by Hong Kong RGC Project ( PolyU15224121 ) ,   NSFC Young Scientists Fund ( 62006203 ) , and   HKPolyU collaborative research project ( ZGBE ) .   References102741027510276   9 Appendix   9.1 Data access word list   Table 5 gives data sharing and collection word   list , that is summarized from laws ( NISSTC , 2020 ;   GDPR , 2016 ; PISS , 2020 ) , app market require-   ments ( Google , 2022b ; Huawei , 2022b ) , and pre-   vious works ( Yu et al . , 2016 ; Andow et al . , 2019 ,   2020 ) . With those words , researchers can locate   data access - related sentences and conduct further   analysis to get interested entities , such as data con-   troller , data entity , collection , sharing , condition ,   purpose and data receiver .   9.2 Ethical Consideration   CA4P-483 is a dataset constructed by gathering   publicly available privacy policy websites without   posing any ethical problems . First , privacy policies   are publicly accessible in multi ways . According   to application markets ’ requirements , developers   or companies are asked to provide those privacy   policy websites once they publish their apps . Pri-   vacy policies also ought to be given when the users   use apps for the first time according to law require-   ments ( PISS , 2020 ) . Second , we do not collect any   privacy information . Besides , the CA4P-483 is   proposed to prompt research for protecting user   privacy .   For the annotations , we hired part - time research   assistants from our university to label the dataset .   They are compensated with 9 USD / hour and at   most 17.5 hours per week .   9.3 Prediction results analysis   In this section , we show the prediction results of   the algorithm and some common problems . These   problems could be the limitations of existing mod-   els and also be challenges for designing algorithms   for our data scenario .   Fig . 5 illustrates the scenario where there exist   overlapping between components , i.e. , the " basic   registration or login information ( 基本注册或登   录信息 ) " . Exactly , " basic registration or login in-   formation " should be one data as is highlighted in   Chinese version , i.e. , the ground truth . However ,   the algorithm will prediction " basic registration or   login ( 基本注册或登录 ) " as Purpose and " infor-   mation ( 信息 ) " as Data as are highlighted in En-   glish version . The meaning of color for different   categories can be refer to Figure 1 . Fig . 6 shows   the pre - trained algorithm may misclassify Purpose   asCondition when data controller is the user.10277