  Bohong Wu , Zhuosheng Zhang , Jinyuan Wang , Hai ZhaoDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering , Shanghai Jiao Tong UniversityKey Laboratory of Shanghai Education Commission for Intelligent Interaction   and Cognitive Engineering , Shanghai Jiao Tong University   chengzhipanpan@sjtu.edu.cn,zhangzs@sjtu.edu.cn   steve_wang@sjtu.edu.cn,zhaohai@cs.sjtu.edu.cn   Abstract   Training dense passage representations via   contrastive learning has been shown effective   for Open - Domain Passage Retrieval ( ODPR ) .   Existing studies focus on further optimizing   by improving negative sampling strategy or   extra pretraining . However , these studies   keep unknown in capturing passage with   internal representation conﬂicts from improper   modeling granularity . Speciﬁcally , under our   observation that a passage can be organized   by multiple semantically different sentences ,   modeling such a passage as a uniﬁed dense   vector is not optimal . This work thus   presents a reﬁned model on the basis of a   smaller granularity , contextual sentences , to   alleviate the concerned conﬂicts . In detail ,   we introduce an in - passage negative sampling   strategy to encourage a diverse generation   of sentence representations within the same   passage . Experiments on three benchmark   datasets verify the efﬁcacy of our method ,   especially on datasets where conﬂicts are   severe . Extensive experiments further present   good transferability of our method across   datasets .   1 Introduction   Open - Domain Passage Retrieval ( ODPR ) has   recently attracted the attention of researchers for   its wide usage both academically and industrially   ( Lee et al . , 2019 ; Yang et al . , 2017 ) . Provided   with an extremely large text corpus that composed   of millions of passages , ODPR aims to retrieve   a collection of the most relevant passages as the   evidences of a given question .   With recent success in pretrained language   models ( PrLMs ) like BERT ( Devlin et al . , 2019 ) ,   RoBERTa ( Liu et al . , 2019 ) , dense retrieval   techniques have achieved signiﬁcant better resultsthan traditional lexical based methods , including   TF - IDF ( Ramos et al . , 2003 ) and BM25 ( Robertson   and Zaragoza , 2009 ) , which totally neglect   semantic similarity . Thanks to the Bi - Encoder   structure , dense methods ( Lee et al . , 2019 ; Guu   et al . , 2020 ; Karpukhin et al . , 2020 ) encode   the Wikipedia passages and questions separately ,   and retrieve evidence passages using similarity   functions like the inner product or cosine similarity .   Given that the representations of Wikipedia   passages could be precomputed , the retrieval speed   of dense approaches could be on par with lexical   ones .   Previous approaches often pretrain the Bi-   Encoders with a specially designed pretraining   objective , Inverse Cloze Task ( ICT ) ( Lee et al . ,   2019 ) . More recently , DPR ( Karpukhin et al . , 2020 )   adopts a simple but effective contrastive learning   framework , achieving impressive performance   without any pretraining . Concretely , for each   question q , several positive passages pand hard   negative passages pproduced by BM25 are   pre - extracted . By feeding the Bi - Encoder with   ( q ; p ; p)triples , DPR simultaneously maximizes   the similarity between the representation of qand   corresponding p , and minimizes the similarity   between the representations of qand all p.   Following such contrastive learning framework ,   many researchers are seeking further improvements   for DPR from the perspective of sampling strategy   ( Xiong et al . , 2020 ; Lu et al . , 2020 ; Tang et al . ,   2021 ; Qu et al . , 2021 ) or extra pretraining ( Sachan   et al . , 2021 ) , or even using knowledge distillation   ( Izacard and Grave , 2021 ; Yang et al . , 2021 ) .   However , these studies fail to realize that there   exist severe drawbacks in the current contrastive   learning framework adopted by DPR . Essentially ,   as illustrated in Figure 1 , each passage pis   composed of multiple sentences , upon which   multiple semantically faraway questions can be   derived , which forms a question set Q=1062   fq ; q ; : : : ; qg . Under our investigation , such a   one - to - many problem is causing severe conﬂicting   problems in the current contrastive learning   framework , which we refer to as Contrastive   Conﬂicts . To the best of our knowledge , this is   the ﬁrst work that formally studies the conﬂicting   problems in the contrastive learning framework of   dense passage retrieval . Here , we distinguish two   kinds of Contrastive Conﬂicts .   Transitivity of Similarity The goal of the con-   trastive learning framework in DPR is to maximize   the similarity between the representation of the   question and its corresponding gold passage . As   illustrated in Figure 2 , under Contrastive Conﬂicts ,   the current contrastive learning framework will   unintendedly maximize the similarity between   different question representations derived from the   same passage , even if they might be semantically   different , which would possibly be the cause of   the low performance on SQuAD ( Rajpurkar et al . ,   2016 ) for DPR(SQuAD has an average of 2.66   questions per passage ) .   Multiple References in Large Batch Size   According to Karpukhin et al . ( 2020 ) , the   performance of DPR highly beneﬁts from large   batch size in the contrastive learning framework .   However , under Contrastive Conﬂicts , one passage   could be the positive passage pof multiple   questions ( i.e. the question set Q ) . Therefore ,   a large batch size will increase the probability   that some questions of Qmight occur in the same   batch . With the widely adopted in - batch negative   technique ( Karpukhin et al . , 2020 ; Lee et al . , 2021 ) ,   suchpwill be simultaneously referred to as both   the positive sample and the negative sample for   every qinQ , which is logically unreasonable .   Since one - to - many problem is the direct cause   of both conﬂicts , this paper presents a simple but   effective strategy that breaks down dense passage   representations into contextual sentence level ones ,   which we refer to as Dense Contextual Sentence   Representation ( DCSR ) . Unlike long passages , it   is hard to derive semantically faraway questions   from one short sentence . Therefore , by modeling   ODPR in smaller units like contextual sentences ,   we fundamentally alleviate Contrastive Conﬂicts   by solving the one - to - many problem . Note that   we do not simply encode each sentence separately .   Instead , we encode the passage as a whole and use   sentence indicator tokens to acquire the sentence   representations within the passage , to preserve   the contextual information . We further introduce   the in - passage negative sampling strategy , which   samples neighboring sentences of the positive one   in the same passage to create hard negative samples .   Finally , concrete experiments have veriﬁed the   effectiveness of our proposed method from both   retrieval accuracy and transferability , especially on   datasets where Contrastive Conﬂicts are severe .   Contributions ( i ) We investigate the defects of the   current contrastive learning framework in training   dense passage representation in Open - Domain   Passage Retrieval . ( ii ) To handle Contrastive   Conﬂicts , we propose to index the Wikipedia   corpus using contextual sentences instead of   passages . We also propose the in - passage negative   sampling strategy in training the contextual   sentence representations . ( iii ) Experiments show   that our proposed method signiﬁcantly outperforms   original baseline , especially on datasets where   Contrastive Conﬂicts are severe . Extensive   experiments also present better transferability of1063our DCSR , indicating that our method captures the   universality of the concerned task datasets .   2 Related Work   Open - Domain Passage Retrieval Open - Domain   Passage Retrieval has been a hot research topic   in recent years . It requires a system to extract   evidence passages for a speciﬁc question from   a large passage corpus like Wikipedia , and is   challenging as it requires both high retrieval   accuracy and speciﬁcally low latency for practical   usage . Traditional approaches like TF - IDF   ( Ramos et al . , 2003 ) , BM25 ( Robertson and   Zaragoza , 2009 ) retrieve the evidence passages   based on the lexical match between questions and   passages . Although these lexical approaches meet   the requirement of low latency , they fail to capture   non - lexical semantic similarity , thus performing   unsatisfying on retrieval accuracy .   With recent advances of pretrained language   models ( PrLMs ) like BERT ( Devlin et al . , 2019 ) ,   RoBERTa ( Liu et al . , 2019 ) , a series of neural   approaches based on cross - encoders are proposed   ( Vig and Ramea , 2019 ; Wolf et al . , 2019 ) .   Although enjoying satisfying retrieval accuracy ,   the retrieval latency is often hard to tolerate in   practical use . More recently , the Bi - Encoder   structure has captured the researchers ’ attention .   With Bi - Encoder , the representations of the corpus   at scale can be precomputed , enabling it to   meet the requirement of low latency in passage   retrieval . Lee et al . ( 2019 ) ﬁrst proposes to   pretrain the Bi - Encoder with Inverse Cloze Task   ( ICT ) . Later , DPR ( Karpukhin et al . , 2020 )   introduces a contrastive learning framework to train   dense passage representation , and has achieved   impressive performance on both retrieval accuracy   and latency . Based on DPR , many works make   further improvements either by introducing better   sampling strategy ( Xiong et al . , 2020 ; Lu et al . ,   2020 ; Tang et al . , 2021 ; Qu et al . , 2021 ) or   extra pretraining ( Sachan et al . , 2021 ) , or even   distilling knowledge from cross - encoders ( Izacard   and Grave , 2021 ; Yang et al . , 2021 ) .   Our method follows the contrastive learning   research line of ODPR . Different from previous   works that focus on either improving the quality   of negative sampling or using extra pretraining ,   we make improvements by directly optimizing the   modeling granularity with an elaborately designed   contrastive learning training strategy . Contrastive Learning Contrastive learning re-   cently is attracting researchers ’ attention in all   area . After witnessing its superiority in Computer   Vision tasks ( Chen et al . , 2020 ; He et al . , 2020 ) ,   researchers in NLP are also applying this technique   ( Wu et al . , 2020 ; Karpukhin et al . , 2020 ; Yan   et al . , 2021 ; Giorgi et al . , 2021 ; Gao et al . ,   2021 ) . For the concern of ODPR , the research   lines of contrastive learning can be divided into   two types : ( i ) Improving the sampling strategies   for positive samples and hard negative samples .   According to ( Manmatha et al . , 2017 ) , the quality   of positive samples and negative samples are   of vital importance in the contrastive learning   framework . Therefore , many researchers seek   better sampling strategies to improve the retrieval   performance ( Xiong et al . , 2020 ) . ( ii ) Improving   the contrastive learning framework . DensePhrase   ( Lee et al . , 2021 ) uses memory bank like MOCO   ( He et al . , 2020 ) to increase the number of in-   batch negative samples without increasing the GPU   memory usage , and models retrieval process on   the phrase level but not passage level , achieving   impressive performance .   Our proposed method follows the second   research line . We investigate a special phe-   nomenon , Contrastive Conﬂicts in the contrastive   learning framework , and experimentally verify   the effectiveness of mediating such conﬂicts by   modeling ODPR in a smaller granularity . More   similar to our work , Akkalyoncu Yilmaz et al .   ( 2019 ) also proposes to improve dense passage   retrieval based on sentence - level evidences , but   their work is not in the research line of contrastive   learning , and focuses more on passage re - ranking   after retrieval but not retrieval itself .   3 Methods   3.1 Contrastive Learning Framework   Existing contrastive learning framework aims to   maximize the similarity between the representa-   tions of each question and its corresponding gold   passages .   Suppose there is a batch of nquestions ,   ncorresponding gold passages and in total k   hard negative passages . Denote the questions   in batch as q ; q ; : : : ; q , their corresponding   gold passages as gp ; gp ; : : : ; gp , and hard   negative passages as np ; np ; : : : ; np . Two   separate PrLMs are ﬁrst used separately to   acquire representations for questions and passages1064   fh ; h ; : : : ; h ; h ; : : : ; h ; h ; : : : g. The   training objective for each question sample qof   original DPR is shown in Eq ( 1 ):   L(q ; gp; ; gp ; np; ; np ) =    loge ( )   Pe()+Pe ( )   ( 1 )   Thesim()could be any similarity operator that   calculates the similarity between the question   representation hand the passage representation   h.   Minimizing the objective in Eq ( 1 ) is the same   as ( i ) maximizing the similarity between each h   andhpair , and ( ii ) minimizing the similarity   between hand all other h(i6 = j ) and h.   As discussed previously , this training paradigm will   cause conﬂicts under current contrastive learning   framework due to ( i ) Transitivity of Similarity , and   ( ii ) Multiple References in Large Batch Size .   3.2 Dense Contextual Sentence   Representation   The cause of the Contrastive Conﬂicts lies in one-   to - many problem , that most of the passages are   often organized by multiple sentences , while these   sentences may not always stick to the same topic ,   as depicted in Figure 1 . Therefore , we propose to   model passage retrieval in a smaller granularity , i.e.   contextual sentences , to alleviate the occurrence of   one - to - many problem .   Since contextual information is also important in   passage retrieval , simply breaking down passages   into sentences and encoding them independently   is infeasible . Instead , following ( Beltagy et al . ,2020 ; Lee et al . , 2020 ; Wu et al . , 2021 ) , we insert a   special < sent > token at the sentence boundaries in   each passage , and encode the passage as a whole to   preserve the contextual information , which results   in the following format of input for each passage :   [ CLS ] < sent > sent < sent > sent ... [ SEP ]   We then use BERT ( Devlin et al . , 2019 )   as encoder to get the contextual sentence   representations by these indicator < sent > tokens .   For convenience of illustration , taking a give query   qinto consideration , we denote the corresponding   positive passage in the training batch as p , which   consists of several sentences :   P = fp ; p ; : : :p ; : : :p ; pg   Similarly , we denote the corresponding BM25   negative passage as :   N = fn ; n ; : : : n ; : : : n ; ng   Here ( )means whether the sentence or   passage contains the gold answer . We reﬁne the   original contrastive learning framework by creating   sentence - aware positive and negative samples . The   whole training pipeline is shown in the left part of   Figure 3 .   3.2.1 Positives and Easy Negatives   Following Karpukhin et al . ( 2020 ) , we use BM25   to retrieve hard negative passages for each question .   To build a contrastive learning framework based on   contextual sentences , we consider the sentence that   contains the gold answer as the positive sentence   ( i.e.p ) , and randomly sample several negative   sentences ( random sentences from N ) from a1065BM25 random negative passage . Also , following   ( Karpukhin et al . , 2020 ; Lee et al . , 2021 ) , we   introduce in - batch negatives as additional easy   negatives .   3.2.2 In - Passage Negatives   To handle the circumstance where multiple   semantically faraway questions may be derived   from one single passage , we hope to encourage the   passage encoder to generate contextual sentence   representations as diverse as possible for sentences   in the same passage . Noticing that not all   the sentences in the passage contain the gold   answer and stick to the topic related to the given   query , we further introduce in - passage negatives   to maximize the difference between contextual   sentences representations within the same passage .   Concretely , we randomly sample one sentence that   does not contain the gold answer ( i.e. a random   sentence fromP = fPg ) . Note that a positive   passage might not contain such sentence . If it   does not exist , this in - passage negative sentence   is substituted by another easy negative sentence   from the corresponding BM25 negative passage   ( a random sentence from N ) . These in - passage   negatives function as hard negative samples in our   contrastive learning framework .   3.3 Retrieval   For retrieval , we ﬁrst use FAISS ( Johnson et al . ,   2019 ) to calculate the matching scores between the   question and all the contextual sentence indexes .   As one passage has multiple keys in the indexes ,   we retrieve top 100k(kis the average number   of sentences per passage ) contextual sentences for   inference . To change these sentence - level scores   into passage - level ones , we adopt a probabilistic   design for ranking passages , which we refer to as   Score Normalization .   Score Normalization After getting the scores   for each contextual sentences to each question   by FAISS , we ﬁrst use a Softmax operation   to normalize all these similarity scores into   probabilities . Suppose one passage Pwith several   sentences s ; s ; : : : ; s , and denote the probability   for each sentence that contains the answer as   p ; p ; : : : ; p , we can calculate the probability   thatthe answer is in passage Pby Equation 2 .   HasAns ( P ) = 1 Y(1 p ) ( 2 )   We then re - rank all the retrieved passages by   HasAns ( P ) , and select the top 100 passages for   evaluation in our following experiments .   4 Experiments   4.1 Datasets   OpenQA Dataset OpenQA ( Lee et al . , 2019 )   collects over 21 million 100 - token passages from   Wikipedia to simulate the open - domain passage   corpus . OpenQA also collects question - answer   pairs from existing datasets , including SQuAD   ( Rajpurkar et al . , 2016 ) , TriviaQA ( Joshi et al . ,   2017 ) , Natural Questions ( Kwiatkowski et al . ,   2019 ) , WebQuestions ( Berant et al . , 2013 ) and   TREC ( Baudiš and Šediv ` y , 2015 ) .   We experiment our proposed method on SQuAD ,   TriviaQA and NQ . For the previously concerned   Contrastive Conﬂicts problem , we also analyze the   existence frequency of the conﬂicting phenomenon   for each dataset . We count the number of   questions for each passage , i.e , the times that this   passage is referred to as the positive sample . The   corresponding results are shown in Table 1 . From   this table , we can see that of all three datasets we   choose , SQuAD is most severely affected by the   Contrastive Conﬂicts problem , that many passages   occur multiple times as the positive passages for   different questions . These statistics are consistent   with the fact that DPR performs the worst on   SQuAD , while acceptable on Trivia and NQ .   4.2 Training and Implementation Details   Hyperparameters In our main experiments ,   we follow the hyperparameter setting in DPR   ( Karpukhin et al . , 2020 ) to acquire comparable   performance , i.e. an initial learning rate of 2e-5 for   40 epochs on each dataset . We use 8 Tesla V100   GPUs to train the Bi - Encoder with a batch size of   16 on each GPU .   Extra Cost Although we are modeling passage   retrieval in a totally different granularity , our   method adds little extra computation overhead1066   compared to DPR . For model complexity , our   proposed method adopts exactly the same model   structure as DPR does , meaning that there are no   additional parameters introduced . For training   time , the negative sentences in our method are   randomly sampled from the negative passage in   DPR . Therefore , the extra time burden brought   by our method is only caused by the sampling   procedure , which is negligible .   Training Settings To have a comprehensive   comparison with DPR , we train DCSR under three   different settings . ( i ) Single , where each dataset is   both trained and evaluated under their own domain .   ( ii)Multi , where we use a combination of the NQ ,   Trivia and SQuAD datasets to train a universal Bi-   Encoder , and evaluate its performance on the test   sets of all three datasets . ( iii ) Adversarial Training ,   which is a simple negative sampling strategy . We   ﬁrst use the original dataset to train a DPR or   DCSR checkpoint , and use such checkpoint to   acquire semantically hard negative passages from   the whole Wikipedia corpus .   4.3 Main Results on Passage Retrieval   Table 2 shows our main results on OpenQA .   For the Single setting , ( i ) Consistent with the core   aim of this paper that our proposed sentence - aware   contrastive learning solves Contrastive Conﬂicts ,   DCSR achieves signiﬁcantly better results than   DPR especially on the dataset that is severely   affected by Contrastive Conﬂicts . For example ,   on the SQuAD dataset , our method achieves 10.9 %   performance gain on the Top-20 metric , and 7.1 %   performance gain on the Top-100 metric . ( ii )   For datasets that are less affected by Contrastive   Conﬂicts , like NQ and Trivia , we still achieve slight   performance gain on all metrics .   For the Multi setting , DPR on Trivia and   SQuAD suffers from a signiﬁcant performance   drop compared to Single setting , while our model is   only slightly affected . It indicates that our proposed   sentence - aware contrastive learning not only solves   theContrastive Conﬂicts , but also captures the   universality of datasets from different domains .   4.4 Incorporated with Negative Sampling   Different from other frontier researches which   mainly devote themselves either to investigating   better negative sampling strategies , like ANCE   ( Xiong et al . , 2020 ) , NPRINC ( Lu et al . , 2020 ) ,   etc . , or to extra pretraining ( Sachan et al . , 2021 ) ,   or to distilling knowledge from cross - encoders   ( Izacard and Grave , 2021 ; Yang et al . , 2021 ) , our   proposed method directly optimizes the modeling   granularity in DPR . Therefore , our method could   be naturally incorporated with these researches and   achieve better results further . Due to computational   resource limitation , we do not intend to replicate   all these methods , but use adversarial training as   an example . Following ANCE ( Xiong et al . , 2020),1067   we conduct experiments on NQ and Trivia to show   the compatibility of our method , listed in Table 3 .   With such a simple negative sampling strategy , our   DCSR achieves comparable results with its DPR   counterpart .   4.5 Ablation Study   To illustrate the efﬁcacy of the previously proposed   negative sampling strategy , we conduct an ablation   study on a subset of OpenQA Wikipedia corpus .   We sample 1/20 of the whole corpus , which   results in a collection of 1.05 million passages   in total . As reference , we reproduce DPR and   also list their results in Table 4 . We compare   the following negative sampling strategies of our   proposed method .   + 1 BM25 random In this setting , we randomly   sample ( i ) one gold sentence from the positive   passage as the positive sample , and ( ii ) one negative   sentence from the negative passage as the negative   sample per question .   + 2 BM25 random In this setting , we randomly   sample ( i ) one gold sentence from the positive   passage as the positive sample , and ( ii ) two   negative sentences from two different negative   passages as two negative samples per question .   + 1 in - passage & + 1 BM25 random In this   setting , we randomly sample ( i ) one gold sentence   from the positive passage as the positive sample ,   ( ii ) one negative sentence from the positive passage   as the ﬁrst negative sample , and ( iii ) one negative   sentence from the negative passage as the second   negative sample per question .   Ablations of Negative Sampling Strategy The   results are shown in Table 4 . ( i ) Under the   circumstance where only 1.05 million passages   are indexed , variants of our DCSR generally   perform signiﬁcantly better than DPR baseline ,   especially on NQ dataset ( over 1 % improvement   on both Top-20 and Top-100 ) and SQuAD   dataset ( 8.0 % improvement on Top-20 and 4.9 %   improvement on Top-100 ) , which veriﬁes the   effectiveness of solving Contrastive Conﬂicts . ( ii )   Further , we found that increasing the number of   negative samples helps little , but even introduces   slight performance degradation on several metrics .   ( iii ) The in - passage negative sampling strategy   consistently helps in boosting the performance   of nearly all datasets on all metrics , especially   on the SQuAD dataset , which is consistent with   our motivation for in - passage negatives , which is   to encourage a diverse generation of contextual   sentence representations within the same passage   in solving the one - to - many problem .   Ablations of Training Data The results are shown   in Table 5 . ( i ) We ﬁrst directly use the augmented   adversarial training dataset provided by DPR   ( marked as DPR - hard ) and train our DCSR , having   achieved even better results on the NQ dataset . This   augmented dataset is sub - optimal for our model , as   these hard negative samples are passage - speciﬁc ,   while our model prefers sentence - speciﬁc ones . ( ii )   We then use our previous best DCSR checkpoint   to retrieve a set of sentence - speciﬁc hard negatives   ( marked as DCSR - hard ) and train a new DCSR ,   which achieves further performance gain on both   metrics on NQ dataset.1068   5 Discussion   In this section , we discuss the transferability   difference and the inﬂuence of Wikipedia corpus   size on both DPR and our DCSR . More discussions   from different aspects are presented in the   Appendices , including ( i ) Validation accuracy on   dev sets in Appendix A , which is also a strong   evidence of alleviating Contrastive Conﬂicts . ( ii )   Error analysis for SQuAD in Appendix B , which   further shows the generalization ability of our   method . ( iii ) Case study in Appendix C , which   discusses the future improvement of DCSR .   5.1 Transferability   To further verify that our learned DCSR is more   suitable in Open - Domain Passage Retrieval , espe-   cially under the Contrastive Conﬂicts circumstance ,   we conduct experiments to test the transferability   between DPR and our DCSR . Similarly , instead of   running such experiments on the entire Wikipedia   corpus , we sample 1/20 of the corpus , which results   in a collection of 1.05 million passages in total .   We test the transferability result from SQuAD to   Trivia and from NQ to Trivia , as compared to Trivia ,   both SQuAD and NQ suffer more from Contrastive   Conﬂicts . The results are shown in Table 6 .   From Table 6 , when compared to DPR , our   model enjoys signiﬁcantly better transferability . In   both scenarios , DPR shows over 2 % performance   gap in all metrics of the transferability tests ,   indicating that our method performs much better   in generalization across the datasets . This   phenomenon once again conﬁrms our theorem , that   by modeling passage retrieval in the granularity of   contextual sentences , our DCSR well models the   universality across the datasets , and shows much   better transferability than DPR .   5.2 Corpus Size   In our extensive experiments , we further found out   that our method can achieve overwhelming better   performance than DPR on smaller corpus . In this   experiment , we take the ﬁrst 0.1 million , the ﬁrst   1.05 million andall passages from the original   Wikipedia corpus , and conduct dense retrieval on   these three corpora varied in size . The statistic   results are shown in Table 7 .   From Table 7 , ﬁrst of all , our model achieves   better performance than DPR in all settings , where   such improvement is more signiﬁcant in smaller   corpus . On the setting where only 0.1 million   passages are indexed in the corpus , our model   achieves over 2.0 % exact improvement on all   metrics on both NQ and Trivia . We speculate this   is because of the following two strengths of our   method .   The alleviation of Contrastive Conﬂicts , which   we have analyzed previously .   Modeling passage retrieval using contextual   sentences enables a diverse generation of indexes .   Some sentences may not be the core aim of their   corresponding passages , but can still be the clue   for some questions .   Secondly , we can discover that the performance   gap between DPR and DCSR is decreasing when   the size of Wikipedia corpus increases . This is   because with the expansion of indexing corpus,1069many questions that can not be solved in the   small corpus setting may ﬁnd much more closely   related passages in the large corpus setting , which   gradually neutralizes the positive effect brought   by the second strength of our proposed method   discussed above . Still , our model achieves better   performance under the full Wikipedia setting on all   datasets and all metrics .   6 Conclusion   In this paper , we make a thorough analysis on the   Contrastive Conﬂicts issue in the current open-   domain passage retrieval . To well address the   issue , we propose an enhanced sentence - aware   conﬂict learning method by carefully generating   sentence - aware positive and negative samples .   We show that the dense contextual sentence   representation learned from our proposed method   achieves signiﬁcant performance gain compared   to the original baseline , especially on datasets   with severe conﬂicts . Extensive experiments   show that our proposed method also enjoys better   transferability , and well captures the universality in   different datasets .   References107010711072A Validation Accuracy   One may argue that the improvement of DCSR   might be due to the expansion of indexing corpus   ( which we have discussed in previous sections ) ,   but not the alleviation of Contrastive Conﬂicts . In   this section , we present the validation accuracy   comparison during the training process between   DPR and our DCSR , which is a strong evidence   that DCSR well handles the problem of Contrastive   Conﬂicts .   Under 8 V100 GPUs with a batch size of 16 on   each GPU , the validation process could be viewed   as a tiny retrieval process for both DPR and DCSR .   To maintain a similar validation environment for   fair comparison , we use the +1 BM25 random   version of DCSR , which results in 8 * 16=128   questions and 2 * 8 * 16=256 contextual sentences   in one batch . Therefore , the validation process   could be interpreted as retrieving the most relevant   contextual sentence for each question in a corpus   of 256 sentences . Under such a validation task , the   size of the indexing corpus is restricted to the same   for both DPR and DCSR .   The result is shown in Figure 4 . For both Trivia   and NQ , DCSR performs consistently better than   DPR with a small accuracy margin . On SQuAD ,   especially , our DCSR can achieve higher validation   accuracy than DPR with only one single epoch ,   and achieves nearly 20 % ﬁnal validation accuracy   improvement . This phenomenon further veriﬁes   that improvement of DCSR is also achieved by   improving the training strategy which alleviates   Contrastive Conﬂicts , but not only the expansion   of the indexing corpus .   B Error Analysis for SQuAD   Although achieving overwhelmingly better per-   formance on SQuAD than DPR , our DCSR on   SQuAD still lags far behind its counterparts on NQ   or Trivia . Interestingly , we found that the results on   SQuAD dev sets are pretty good and comparable   to the results on NQ or Trivia . The results of both   DPR and DCSR on dev set and test set performance   are shown in Table 8 .   By analyzing the training instances , we observe   that there exists a severe distribution bias problem   in SQuAD : SQuAD - dev and SQuAD - train share a   great number of positive passages . In fact , almost   all positive passages in the SQuAD - dev could also   be found in SQuAD - train . Of all 7921 questions   that have at least one positive passage containing   the answer in SQuAD - dev , 7624 ( 96.25 % ) of these   passages ’ titles could be found in the positive   passages of SQuAD - train . More surprisingly , 6973   ( 88.03 % ) of these passages are shared between   SQuAD - train and SQuAD - dev . However , this   feature is exactly what SQuAD - test does not have ,   resulting in relatively poor performance . But again ,   this phenomenon reveals another strength of our   DCSR , that it enjoys better generalization ability   than DPR , thus is more robust in practical use .   C Case Study   To analyze the retrieval performance difference   between DPR and DCSR , we especially focus   on the different Top 1 predictions on SQuAD .   We count the number of winning times for each   baseline , where DCSR signiﬁcantly outperforms   DPR ( 893 vs. 161 ) , shown in Figure 5 .   C.1 DCSR winning cases   On the question Who was the NFL Commissioner   in early 2012 ? , the strengths of our DCSR are listed   as follows .   Capability of utilizing contextual informa-   tion . The key phrase 2012 andNFL is faraway   from Commisioner Roger Goodell , while our   DCSR is still capable of capturing such distant   contextual information .   Locating the exact sentence of the answer .   This is an obvious feature of DCSR , as we   are modeling on the granularity of contextual   sentences .   On the contrary , due to Contrastive Conﬂicts ,   the question encoder of DPR is severely affected   that it can not generate ﬁne - grained question   representation . Therefore , on this question , DPR   can only ﬁnd out one key phrase commissioner ,   falling into a totally wrong prediction.1073   C.2 DCSR losing cases   On the question Super Bowl 50 decided the NFL   champion for what season ? , our DCSR has already   found a contextual sentence that is very close to the   given question , with several key phrases detected .   However , this contextual sentence is actually a low-   quality index , as it suddenly reaches the end of   the passage . This is caused by the brute force   segmentation strategy of OpenQA , which focuses   on the passage level and restricts the length of each   passage to 100 . In this paper , we perform sentence   split directly on these broken passages , which as a   result breaks down many sentences into low - quality   indexes , affecting the ﬁnal retrieval performance .   We do not intend to reﬁne the splition strategy to   have a fair comparison with DPR , and leave it forfuture investigation.1074