  Mikael Brunila   McGill University   Department of Geography   mikael.brunila@gmail.comJack LaViolette   Columbia University   Department of Sociology   jack.laviolette@columbia.edu   Abstract   The power of word embeddings is attributed   to the linguistic theory that similar words will   appear in similar contexts . This idea is specif-   ically invoked by noting that “ you shall know   a word by the company it keeps , ” a quote from   British linguist J.R. Firth who , along with his   American colleague Zellig Harris , is often cred-   ited with the invention of “ distributional se-   mantics . ” While both Firth and Harris are cited   in all major NLP textbooks and many founda-   tional papers , the content and differences be-   tween their theories is seldom discussed . En-   gaging in a close reading of their work , we dis-   cover two distinct and in many ways divergent   theories of meaning . One focuses exclusively   on the internal workings of linguistic forms ,   while the other invites us to consider words in   new company — not just with other linguistic   elements , but also in a broader cultural and situ-   ational context . Contrasting these theories from   the perspective of current debates in NLP , we   discover in Firth a figure who could guide the   field towards a more culturally grounded notion   of semantics . We consider how an expanded no-   tion of “ context ” might be modeled in practice   through two different strategies : comparative   stratification and syntagmatic extension .   1 Introduction   If you have read any papers in computational   linguistics in the past thirty years , you have likely   come upon the following quote from British lin-   guist J.R.Firth ( 1957c , 11 ): “ You shall know a   word by the company it keeps ” . Cited in most   major textbooks ( Manning and Schütze , 1999 ; Ju-   rafsky and Martin , 2009 ; Eisenstein , 2019 ; Russell   and Norvig , 2020 ) , several foundational papers ,   and hundreds of other NLP articles , this phrase   has come to index a theoretical orientation in afield that is increasingly focused on computation ,   often at the expense of linguistic theory ( on these   trends in NLP see Halevy et al . , 2009 ; Manning ,   2015 ; Norvig , 2012 ; Henderson , 2020 ; Church and   Liberman , 2021 ) . Together with American linguist   Zellig Harris , Firth is regularly called upon to jus-   tify a distributional theory of semantics , whereby   the meaning of lexical units is conceived in terms   of relative co - occurrence and shared contexts of   use ( Sahlgren , 2008 ) .   While Harris and Firth are often invoked , their   ideas are seldom closely engaged . Hailing from   disparate traditions , Harris and Firth had radically   different ideas on the scope and context of linguis-   tic analysis , and presented incongruent versions of   the distributional method . Drawing on the informa-   tion theory pioneered by Claude Shannon ( 1948 ) ,   Harris was determined to work out a structuralist   theory of language in terms of mathematical infor-   mation ( Léon , 2011 ; Nevin , 1993 ) . Firth , on the   other hand , came to linguistics via anthropology   and borrowed heavily from pragmatic philosophies   of language . For him , linguistic analysis always   started with the “ context of situation ” and neces-   sarily accounted for non - verbal actors and objects   ( Firth , 1957c , 9 ) .   Considering the definition and extent of linguis-   tic context is important for many reasons , as a   spate of recent publications suggests ( Glenberg and   Robertson , 2000 ; Hovy , 2018 ; Bender and Koller ,   2020 ; Bisk et al . , 2020 ; Tamari et al . , 2020 ; Trott   et al . , 2020 ) . Firstly , it touches upon the limits of   current paradigms in NLP , where corpus linguistics   is perfected through increasingly complex models   trained on increasingly massive corpora ( Bender   et al . , 2021 ) . This approach may advance the iden-   tification of linguistic form , but might ultimately   have little to say about the relation of meaning to   the social world ( Bender and Koller , 2020 ; Bisk   et al . , 2020 ) . Secondly , even with more modest   ambitions , several NLP applications — e.g. , with4403spatial ( McKenzie and Adams , 2021 ) or historical   ( Kutuzov et al . , 2018 ) data — require that linguis-   tic patterns be related to other types of structure .   Thirdly , from sociological and sociolinguistic per-   spectives , meaning intrinsically varies as language   is used in different settings and indexed to different   social categories ( Labov , 1972 ; Bourdieu , 1984 ;   Silverstein , 2003 ; Eckert , 2008 ; Hovy , 2018 ) . Fi-   nally , without a broader sense of context , NLP and   language modeling in particular remains trapped   in a paradigm where language is always treated as   universal , making invisible both different speech   communities ( e.g. Nguyen et al . , 2021 ) and the   biases of language ( e.g. Blodgett et al . , 2020 ; Lu   et al . , 2020 ; Sap et al . , 2020 ) .   After a brief history of distributional semantics ,   we outline Harris ’ and Firth ’s research on distribu-   tion and , more broadly , on the scope of linguistic   analysis . We look at some of the ways in which   NLP has tried to account for broader context within   the distributional paradigm . We suggest that exist-   ing strategies can be understood in terms of ei-   ther “ comparative stratification ” or “ syntagmatic   extension . ” We conclude with thoughts on why re-   reading Harris and , in particular , Firth might aid the   field of NLP with its current aporias . If words shall   be known by the company they keep , then the ques-   tion follows : what kind of company do they keep ?   Are they found only alongside linguistic elements ,   or do they mingle with other types of entities ? Or ,   as Firth himself wrote : “ Many different answers   could be given to the question ‘ Distribution of what ,   where and how ? ” ’ ( Firth , 1957a , v ) .   2 Background : Distributional Semantics   and NLP   Distributional semantics has been an fundamental   part of computational linguistics since the begin-   nings of the field , but in a discontinuous manner   encompassing at least two distinct eras . Firstly ,   during the 1950s and 60s , Harris was integral to the   mathematization of linguistics in the US after the   Second World War ( Rubenstein and Goodenough ,   1965 ; Léon , 2021 ) . Firth was skeptical of efforts   to mechanize linguistics , but he nonetheless con-   sulted for some of the early work on machine trans-   lation at Cambridge Language Research Group(Léon , 2007 , 410 ) , which included Firth ’s pupil ,   M.A.K. Halliday ( Léon , 2021 , 144 ) and shortly   later the NLP pioneer Karen Spärck Jones ( Léon ,   2021 , 89 ) . Naturally , others also contributed to   this first wave of distributional thinking , including   Shannon ( 1945 ; 1948 ) with what might be con-   sidered one of the first language models , Warren   Weaver ( 1952 ) with an early proposal for distribu-   tional semantics , and Martin Joos ( 1950 ) with a   statistical formulation of language as a symbolic   system of conditional probabilities .   Secondly , when computational linguistics re-   turned to its “ empiricist ” roots in probabilistic   methods and information theory in the mid-80s and   early 90s ( Norvig 2012 ; Léon 2021 , 141 ) , Firth   and Harris accompanied Shannon among the au-   thors who were invoked , in an ACL “ Special Issue   on Computational Linguistics Using Large Cor-   pora , ” as foundational figures of a tradition that   had been overshadowed for decades by the “ ratio-   nalism ” of characters such as Noam Chomsky and   Marvin Minsky ( Church and Mercer , 1993 , 15 ) .   During this “ corpus turn , ” the rapid automation   of linguistics was driven by a resumed connection   with postwar computational linguistics and infor-   mation theory ( Léon , 2021 , 3 ) . However , the 1990s   wave of vector semantics papers that used methods   like singular - value decomposition ( SVD ) to pro-   duce early “ dense vector ” models of meaning like   LSA ( Deerwester et al . , 1989 , 1990 ; Landauer and   Dumais , 1997 ) and its derivatives ( Hofmann , 1999 ;   Blei et al . , 2002 ) , HAL ( Burgess , 1998 ) , or the   models of Schütze ( Schütze , 1992 , 1993 ; Schütze   and Pedersen , 1993 ) generally did not cite Firth or   Harris , although a few papers from that period did   ( Church and Hanks , 1989 ; Hindle , 1990 ) . In short ,   while Firth and Harris were not regularly used as   stand - ins for linguistic theory during the 1990s and   early 2000s , a general revival of empiricism and   distributional approaches to meaning signaled a   potential resurgence of interest in their thinking .   During the 2000s , the application of neural   networks to language modeling tasks ( e.g. Ben-   gio et al . , 2003 ) and the development of self-   supervision techniques ( e.g. Raina et al . , 2007 ) set   the stage for the word embedding breakthroughs   of the early 2010s ( e.g. Mikolov et al . , 2013 ) . By   the end of the decade , the introduction of atten-   tion ( Graves et al . , 2013 ; Bahdanau et al . , 2015 )   and then of the Transformer model ( Vaswani et al . ,   2017 ) made way for the next breakthrough , the4404large - language modeling revolution ( e.g. Peters   et al . , 2018 ; Devlin et al . , 2019 ; Chowdhery et al . ,   2022 ) .   Following the introduction of the word2vec   model and its powerful but “ static ” embeddings ,   Harris in particular was frequently cited ( Le and   Mikolov , 2014 ; Levy and Goldberg , 2014 ; Levy   et al . , 2015 ; Bojanowski et al . , 2017 ) , often ( but   not always ) along with Firth ( Bruni et al . , 2014 ;   Hamilton et al . , 2016 ; Goldberg , 2017 ; Eisenstein ,   2019 ; Jurafsky and Martin , 2021 ) . However , de-   spite an explosion of citations ( Bisk et al . , 2020 ,   8719 ) , this interest has not been very engaged . In   fact , the canonization of Firth and Harris during   this time is paradoxical . On the one hand , it seems   that they are invoked to lend theoretical authority to   a field that struggles to lift its gaze from the latest   state - of - the - art numbers ( Manning , 2015 ; Bender   and Koller , 2020 ) . Yet , the unspoken conclusion   from the ascent of neural models and the language   modeling revolution was that “ learning from data   made linguistic theories irrelevant ” ( Henderson ,   2020 , 6295 ) . In other words , just as NLP seemed   to lose interest with linguistic theory , it elevated   two pioneering theoreticians to canonical status ,   but seemingly without engaging closely with their   work . In fact , it often seems as if Firth and Har-   ris are referenced in such a cavalier manner that   it deflects attention from the field ’s general lack   of engagement with linguistic theory . Meanwhile ,   Firth and Harris became figures who justify a rel-   atively narrow conception of meaning , one that is   predominantly intra - linguistic , without much to say   about its usage in social life .   This peculiar story has not been properly told .   Though Léon discusses the contrast between Har-   ris and Firth in the context of corpus linguistics   ( 2008 ) and their influence on the history of com-   putational linguistics ( 2021 ) , her work does not   address the differences in their distributional theo-   ries and conceptions of “ context , ” nor the renewed   and paradoxical significance of the two authors for   language modeling . In our contribution , we empha-   size the gap between the ideas of Firth and Harris   as well as the insights a re - reading of their work   offers for expanding the scope of computational   semantics .   3 Harris ’s distributional structuralism   Few linguists contributed more to linguistic the-   ory than Zellig Harris ( 1909–1992 ) , and not justby serving as Noam Chomsky ’s doctoral advisor .   In fact , the two came to share little in common   ( Goldsmith , 2005 ; Nevin , 2010 ) . Whereas Chom-   sky ’s generative grammar repositioned linguistics   as a cognitive science seeking to understand , in   so few words , the idealized mental representations   and structures enabling language acquisition and   production ( e.g. Chomsky , 1972 ) , Harris ’ radically   distributional approach to language effectively ele-   vated the natural language corpus as the sole start-   ing point from which linguistic theory could arise   ( Harris , 1951 , 1 ; Harris et al . , 1988 , 2–3 ; Johnson ,   2002 , 143–144 ) .   This theory consisted of a linguistic structure seg-   mentable into a finite set of formal objects charac-   terized by constrained patterns of correspondence   with one another ( Harris , 1951 , 1954 , 1991 ) . Such   patterns of correspondence can be observed only in   language - in - use , that is , in natural language cor-   pora . In his foundational paper “ Distributional   Structure , ” for example , Harris ( 1954 , 156–157 )   provides a purely distributional account of how one   might induce the semantic meanings of oculist , eye-   doctor , and lawyer from the partial ( in the case   ofoculist andlawyer ) or nearly complete ( in the   case of oculist andeye - doctor ) overlap in their ob-   served “ environments ” of use . This approach ap-   plies to other levels of linguistic analysis , such as   morphophonemics ( e.g. , Harris , 1954 , 155 ) . Rather   than producing a series of descriptive rules for   the distribution of each phoneme , morpheme , or   word , greater parsimony was sought by grouping   these elements into structurally equivalent classes —   categorized by their relationships as “ operators ”   and “ arguments ” in Harris ’ later work ( e.g. 1968 ;   1988 ; 1991)—sharing the same distributional rules ,   compounding elements in a hierarchical manner .   In this section we draw attention to three aspects   of Harris ’s distributional linguistics : the relation-   ship it posits between meaning and form ; assump-   tions about heterogeneity among speakers of the   same dialect ; and the concept of sublanguages .   3.1 Meaning and form   A result of Harris ’ vision of a linguistics —   concerned above all with the structural and prob-   abilistic constraints governing the combination of   formal elements — is that the discipline would be   fully autonomous , not only from biology and psy-   chology but even from semantics , phonetics , and   logic , “ complete without intrusion of other features4405such as history or meaning ” ( Harris 1954 , 146 ;   Goldsmith 2005 , 725–726).Harris ’s reasoning   depended on the particular status he gave to lin-   guistics among all the sciences . Taking language   as its object of inquiry , linguistics lacks — unlike   other sciences — a metalanguage external to lan-   guage , i.e. , to its object of inquiry ( Harris , 1991 ,   4–5 ; Nevin , 1993 , 356 ) . Even if some other sym-   bolic system is used , “ those symbols will have to   be defined ultimately in a natural language ” ( Harris ,   1991 , 274 ) , as the surging demand for interpretabil-   ity and explainability in NLP has made evident   ( see e.g. Danilevsky et al . , 2020 ) . Language is   consequently not a “ code ” of “ forms ” that corre-   late with some meanings outside of it . It has no   “ one - to - one ” conformity “ with some independently   discoverable structure of meaning ” ( Harris , 1954 ,   152 ) . Instead , it is a system related to , but also   independent from , thought ( Harris , 1991 , 383–384 ;   Nevin , 1993 , 361–363 ) . While all human activity   is meaningful , the particular meanings of language   areconstituted by its form , not correlated with it   ( Nevin , 1993 , 394 ) . Meaning thus understood is   about departures from equiprobability in the dis-   tribution of these constraints ( Harris , 1991 , 23 ) .   These departures “ define a range of meaning for   each morpheme , which includes its meaning in   each occurrence ” . Nonetheless , shared environ-   ments do not necessarily imply shared meanings :   “ bumped into a pole can be said after a minor acci-   dent or after a chance meeting with an East Euro-   pean ” ( Harris , 1951 , 191 ) .   The ultimate goal of Harris ’s linguistic inquiry   is to evaluate the efficiency of different grammars   and their ability to model the statistical constraints   imposed upon the distribution of different linguis-   tic elements ( Goldsmith , 2005 , 723–725 ) . Harris   held that language was a “ detached pattern ” ( Harris ,   1941 , 295)—information that was public and so-   cially transmissible and hence constitutive of new   types of socially shared and conventional mean-   ing ( Harris , 1991 , 342–345 , 377–382 ; Nevin , 1993 ,   360 , 365)—and linguistics could at best discover   different incomplete grammars ( Harris , 1991 , 31 –   36 ) . Though linguistics might provide insights   about meaning and discourse , or about cultural   practices , such findings would not bear directly onlinguistics per se ( Goldsmith , 2005 , 725–726 ) . In-   deed , while Harris acknowledged that our sense of   word meaning is aided by “ extra - linguistic situa-   tional information , ” words “ beyond the immediate   situation ” are “ on their own ” ( Harris , 1991 , 368 ) .   However , Harris ’s method is not completely de-   tached . Searching for a method to segment speech ,   he notes that the similarity of elements “ reduces   ultimately to the similarity of sound segments un-   der repetition , ” implemented through “ the pair test ”   in which native speakers are asked to discriminate   between sound segments ( Harris , 1954 , 158–159 ) ,   producing an observational primitive that is “ more   easily controlled than data on meaning ” ( e.g. Har-   ris , 1951 , 20 ) .   3.2 Variation , or lack thereof   Harris ’s view of language and linguistics , isolated   from the vagaries of social interaction and variation ,   is obviously difficult to reconcile with a sociolin-   guistic perspective . As Harris writes in his Struc-   tural Linguistics ( 1951 , 9 ) , his approach is meant to   describe a homogeneous dialect , which “ [ i]n most   cases ... presents no problem , since the whole speech   of the person or community shows dialectal consis-   tency . ” Referencing this passage , sociolinguist and   dialectology pioneer William Labov ( 1966/2006 ,   5 ) argues that “ the inconsistency found in most   New York City idiolects is so great that the first   alternative of Harris is impossible , and the second   implausible . ”In other words , even at the level of   the speaker , Harris ’s idealized , unvarying idiolect   does not hold up to empirical scrutiny . Rigorous   consideration of factors that Harris would deem   extra - linguistic ( class , race , interactional roles , etc . )   are indeed essential to produce a systematic descrip-   tion of linguistic structure ( Labov , 1972 ) . From the   sociolinguistic perspective , Harris ’s vision of a lin-   guistic science fully isolated from the “ intrusion ”   of non - verbal social life would never obtain the   systemicity to which it aspired .   This sociolinguistic critique highlights funda-   mental limitations of Harris ’s perspective . Lan-   guage is viewed primarily through the distribu-   tional restrictions imposed by convention , rather   than by “ stylistic practice ” and the ways in which   speakers “ make social - semiotic moves , reinterpret-   ing variables and combining and recombining them   in a continual process ” ( Eckert , 2012 , 94 ) . We can4406study changes in discourse , as Harris himself did in   an impressive volume on structures in immunolog-   ical theory over time ( Harris et al . , 1988 ) , but not   how people make those changes , or indeed the way   in which it is “ the variation itself that is systemic ”   ( Deleuze and Guattari , 1987 , 93 ) .   3.3 Sublanguages   As noted above , Harris ’ revival in the 1990s was   driven by the new interest in “ corpus linguistics ”   of large corpora , a research paradigm that was   partly derived from Harris ’ notion of “ sublan-   guages ” ( Léon , 2021 ) . Harris introduced sublan-   guages in his book Mathematical Structures of Lan-   guage , defined as “ [ c]ertain proper subsets of a lan-   guage [ which ] may be closed under some or all of   the operations defined in the language , and [ which ]   thus constitute a sublanguage of it ” ( Harris , 1968 ,   152 ) . A sublanguage is a set of sentences which are   a subset of the sentences of the “ whole ” language .   However , the grammatical constraints of the sub-   language are not necessarily those of the whole   language ; rather , their grammars intersect ( Harris   1968 , Ch 11 ; Kittredge and Lehrberger 1982 , 1 ) .   In application the term has come to refer primarily   to the grammar and vocabulary unique to or char-   acteristic of a particular professional or scientific   field ( e.g. Harris , 1988 ) , an influential concept for   early information retrieval research ( Sager , 1975 ,   1981).Harris believed that sublanguages could be   neatly identified using the distributional methods   of his general linguistic program .   4 Firth ’s contextual semantics   Something similar to the sociolinguistic critique   of Harris could be articulated from a different per-   spective , namely , through the work of J.R. Firth .   Firth ( 1890–1960)—professor of General Linguis-   tics at the University College of London and the   first holder of a chair in that subject in Britain —   independently formulated a distributional theory of   lexical semantics . However , unlike Harris , Firth   refused to treat meaning separately from pragmat-   ics , and words apart from their broader “ context of   situation . ” ( Robins , 1997 , 205–208 )   Firth never published a fully articulated expo-   sition of his general theory of language ( Robins   1997 , 216 ; Thomas 2011 , 180 ) and today , all ofhis work is not only out of print but also mostly   unavailable online . Not understood by “ the con-   temporary scientism ” of American descriptivist   linguistics and its pioneers like Harris , Firth was   mostly ignored on the other side of the Atlantic   ( Palmer 1968 , 2 ; Pandit 1970 , 280 ) . Unlike many   of his American contemporaries , Firth did not draw   mainly from cognitive psychology and logic — the   latter of which Firth thought had “ taken the heart   out of language ” ( Firth , 1957a , 186)—but from   the work of Polish anthropologist Bronisław Mali-   nowski ( Robins , 1997 , 211 ) . Here , we focus on the   evolution of his thoughts on meaning and colloca-   tion , as well as his notions of context of situation   andrestricted language .   4.1 Meaning by collocation   To Firth , the purpose of linguistics is to “ study   meaning in its own terms ” ( Firth 1968b , 145 ; Senis   2015 , 289 ) . The famous phrase about the company   that words keep concerned a particular “ mode of   meaning ” : “ meaning by collocation ” ( Firth , 1957b ,   194 ) . Anticipating vocabulary now ubiquitous in   NLP , Firth thought that this level of meaning could   be found by examining the “ habitual collocations ”   of words and the “ word - material ” in which they are   “ most characteristically embedded ” ( Firth , 1957c ,   11–12 ) . Meaning by collocation was an abstrac-   tion of syntagmatic relations ( Oyelaran 1967 , 444 )   that went beyond “ mere juxtaposition , ” stating in-   stead “ an order of mutual expectancy ” and “ mutual   prehension ” ( Firth , 1957c , 12 ) . While mutual ex-   pectancy could be understood similarly to Joos ’s   ( 1950 ) conditional probabilities of occurrence or   the concept of Pointwise Mutual Information ( Fano ,   1961 ) , the notion of “ prehension ” originates in   the work of philosopher and mathematician Al-   fred North Whitehead ( 1938 , 1957 ; see also Butt   2013 ) and concerns the manner in which one en-   tity grasps another and makes it part of its own   experience ( Christian 1959 , 12 ; Bryant 2011 , 136 ) .   Drawing on Whitehead ’s “ modes of thought ”   ( 1938 ; see also Butt 2001 , 1812 , Butt 2019 , 28 ) ,   Firth advocated a type of “ polysystemic ” linguistic   analysis that was interested in different , congruent   modes of meaning , whether phonetic , phonologi-   cal , syntactic , or semantic , but always situated in   broader social context ( Firth 1957c , 27 , 30 ; Robins   1997 , 214 ) . In stark contrast to Harris , Firth explic-   itly rejected any efforts to create “ unity in linguis-   tics ” ( Firth , 1968d , 48 ) or one system of analysis.4407Citing the later Wittgenstein ( 1953 , Firth 1957c ,   11 ) , Firth was mainly interested in the concrete use   of language , reversing the schema of Ferdinand   de Saussure ( 1916/2011 ) in which language ( la   langue ) is a system “ external to and on a differ-   ent plane from individual phenonema , ” including   the concrete instances ( la parole ) of language use   ( Firth 1949 , 400 ; Firth 1950 , 44–45 ) . While his   final ideas matured considerably later , Firth ini-   tially articulated his ideas about semantics in two   1935 papers , one on semantics ( Firth , 1935a ) and   one on phonology ( Firth , 1935b ) , using the term   “ contextual distribution ” in both . However , Firth   ( 1957c , 18 ) ultimately disavowed this initial dis-   tributional theory — which was not too dissimilar   from Harris’s — as “ useful ” but inadequate to act as   the “ main principle ” in a theory “ of structures in-   volving the statement of the values of the elements   of structure by reference to systems . ”   By distinguishing between system ( syntagm )   and structure ( paradigm ) , Firth wanted to highlight   two operational principles necessary for meaning   by collocation : 1 ) substitution within “ the same   level of abstraction , ” and 2 ) commutation across   different levels ( Robins , 1953 , 140 ) . Only sub-   stitution that does not produce commutation in a   sequence , indicates similarity of value or function   ( Firth 1957c , 5 ; Firth 1968c , 23 ) . Two words   are only substitutable — and hence similar in func-   tion and meaning — if their values do not commute   across a particular sentence . Substitutability , then ,   does not equal synonymy . Take , for example , the   following two phrases containing a ) prepositional   and b ) adverbial uses of the word “ by ” :   ( a ) They go by night .   ( b ) They go by night after night .   Now , “ by ” could be replaced by the word “ past ”   without commuting the meaning of the other words   in ( b ) . However , replacing “ by ” with “ past ” would   commute with the rest of ( a ) in an impossible way   ( Firth , 1968c , 23–24 ) . This demonstrates how sub-   stitution concerns the relationship between “ by ”   and “ past ” as two elements at the same level of   analysis — i.e. , lexical units — but in order to ac-   count for commutation , we need to look beyond   this level to other levels of abstraction . Firth ’s conception of collocation and his frequent   nods to Whitehead were part of his “ monistic ” ap-   proach that rejected the division between mind and   body ( Firth 1957c , 2 ; Palmer 1968 , 5 ) and all the   other dualities — language and thought , word and   idea , signifier and signified , expression and content   ( Firth , 1951 , 86)—that characterized the structural-   ist linguistics of his time . He similarly rejected   any notion of linguistics as “ a theory of universals   forgeneral linguistic description ” ( Firth , 1957c ,   21 ) . Anticipating contemporary concerns about lan-   guage diversity in NLP ( e.g. Bender , 2019 ) , Firth   called for the Western scholar to “ de - Europeanize   himself ” and the English scholar , due to the univer-   sal use of his language , to “ de - Anglicize himself ”   ( Firth 1968a , 96 ; Senis 2015 , 274 ) .   4.2 Context and connection   Diverging from structuralist linguistics , Firth sug-   gested that a text should always be given a “ renewal   of connection with experience ” ( Firth , 1957c , 29 ) .   This notion of meaning was influenced by Mali-   nowski , for whom Firth worked as an assistant early   in his career ( Plug , 2008 , 346 ) and from whom he   borrowed the notion of “ context of situation ” ( Firth   1935a , Robins 1997 , 211 ) . In Malinwoski ’s view ,   meaning was more than just a dyadic relationship   between a word and its referent , “ a multidimen-   sional and functional set of relations between the   word in its sentence and the context of its occur-   rence ” ( Robins , 1971 , 35 ) . However , while Mali-   nowski ’s view on meaning was entirely functional   and hyper - local , Firth employed the notion of “ con-   text of situation ” as a necessary abstraction , not as   a shorthand for things in themselves ( Firth 1950 ,   43 , Palmer 1968 , 6 ) . Context of situation is derived   from an analytical choice , “ a set of categories in   ordered relations abstracted from the life of man   in the flux of events , from personality in society , ”   ( Firth , 1957c , 30 ) prehending something of im-   portance and bracketing the rest . It is , then , not   necessarily about restricting the meaning of every   utterance to a specific time and place , but about   defining “ an abstract set of semantically relevant   categories , abstracted from multitudes of actual   situations , to which unique particulars could be re-   ferred . ” ( Robins , 1971 , 41–42 ) Firth called for the   linguist to focus on “ attested language text duly   recorded ” , accounting for a text ’s associated con-   text of situation andits interior relations . ( Firth,44081957c , 29–30 )   Firth was famously opaque with the exact opera-   tionalization of his concepts , including context of   situation , but he did provide a detailed list of the   different contextual elements that a linguist should   bring into relation during analysis ( Firth , 1950 , 43 ) .   These include the relevant features of participants   ( persons , personalities ) ; their verbal and non - verbal   actions ; the relevant objects ; and the effects of ver-   bal action .   During Firth ’s lifetime , the most thorough work   that put his notion of context of situation to work   was an ethnographic study by his student T.F.   Mitchell in former Cyreneica ( today Libya ) on the   language of buying and selling at the local markets   of different cities and villages in the region . For   Mitchell ( 1957 , 32–33 ) , contexts that might “ cor-   relate ” with particular types of text included : the   spatio - temporal situation of persons in the context ;   the activities of participants ; the attitudes of the   participants ; their “ personalities ” such as specific   trade of profession , geographical and class origins ,   educational standard , inter - relationship , and so on .   It is worth noting that both Mitchell and M.A.K.   Halliday — Firth ’s student who synthesized much   of his theory — used words such as “ correlation , ”   “ inference , ” and “ prediction ” to describe the rela-   tionship between a text and its situational context ,   implying that a statistical extension of their ap-   proaches would not be completely unreasonable .   In fact , Halliday himself suggested as much , when   he in the early 1990s made efforts to bridge his   branch of linguistics with the nascent field of cor-   pus linguistics ( Halliday , 1991 ) .   In conclusion : Firth ’s famous quote itself refers   to collocation , while his notion of “ context ” implies   something much broader , “ the whole conceptual   meaning ” ( Firth , 1957c , 11 ) . Context is the ground   against which the figure of the text must be under-   stood , no matter ( per Harris ) how “ detached ” its   pattern might be ( e.g. Auer , 1996 ) . Without con-   text , collocation captures only one narrow “ mode   of meaning . ”   4.3 Restricted languages   Like Harris , Firth ’s revival in connection with   1990s corpus linguistics was related to his attempts   to respond to practical needs of empirical research .   Expanding upon his functional understanding of   language , Firth developed his notion of “ restricted   languages ” in the 1950s ( Léon 2007 , 7 ) . In aposthumously published essay , he describes social   actors as “ collect[ing ] a varied repertory of inter-   locking roles ” corresponding to a “ constellation   of restricted languages ” ( Firth , 1968e , 207 ) . As   people shift between locally contextualized roles ,   they draw upon their “ repertory ” of restricted lan-   guages with specialized vocabulary and discursive   styles that both reflect and constitute these contexts .   Thus one might speak of a “ restricted language of   science , sport , defense , industry , aviation , military   services , commerce , law and civil administration ,   politics , literature , etc . ” ( Léon , 2008 , 261 ) . As   such , the concept of restricted language is now   generally seen as a precursor to the concept of “ reg-   ister , ” which was taken up by subsequent sociolin-   guists and linguistic anthropologists ( e.g. Halliday ,   1968 ; Gumperz and Hymes , 1972 ; Agha , 2005 ) .   In proposing restricted languages as the proper   object of descriptive linguistic analysis , Firth was   making a broader theoretical point against , on the   one hand , “ the monosystemic view of language ”   of neo - Bloomfieldians like Harris and “ pointless   discussions on metalanguage ” on the other , for met-   alanguage could be reanalyzed as a “ restricted lan-   guage of linguistics ” itself ( Léon , 2007 , 9 ) . Simply   put , a descriptive linguistics which privileges re-   stricted languages also necessarily privileges con-   texts of situation as an essential dimension of vari-   ation that allows social meaning to inhere in lan-   guage .   5 Discussion : Words in mixed company   Often cited , together or separately , to justify a dis-   tributional appraoch to semantics , Firth and Har-   ris nonetheless offer differing views on language   and meaning . Harris offers us a rigorous formal-   ism that treats language as a “ detached pattern ” —   not a “ code ” , but a particular system of meaning .   Firth , by comparison , left a much more scattered   legacy that was only systematized by his students .   Firth and Harris shared a concern about the lack   of an external metalanguage of linguistics , but   drew different conclusions from it . If Harris re-   sponded to this conundrum by creating one hierar-   chically organized system without intrusion from   extra - linguistic factors , Firth called for an investi-   gation of language as a “ spectrum ” ( Firth , 1951 ,   76 ) with different modes of meaning that had to   be addressed through multiple levels of analysis —   starting with the context of situation and proceed-   ing from there to decide which other levels are4409relevant ( Firth , 1950 , 44 ) . Firth ’s distributional   theory has been described unfavourably as based   on frequent co - occurrence , in contrast to the re-   cursive dependencies developed by Harris ( Habert   and Zweigenbaum , 2002 , 205 ) . For Harris , the   meaning of a word depends on its set ( e.g. Harris ,   1991 , 17 ) such that , for example , the words “ divide ”   and “ multiply ” operate on the word “ cell ” ( and vice   versa ) in the same way , producing essentially the   same meaning ( Harris 1988 , 62 ) . However , Firth ’s   final method of substitution and commutation also   establishes complex , multidimensional criteria for   distributional contrast as well as a framework for   understanding polysemy . Though less formalized   and less obviously recursive than Harris ’ , Firth ’s   approach can , arguably , also be read as treating   linguistic elements as operators and arguments de-   fined by their sets in a complex hierarchy ( Firth ,   1950 , 44 ; Firth , 1951 , 76 “ at a series of congruent   levels ” ( Firth , 1957c , 29–30 ) with different “ bands   of abstraction ” ( Firth , 1968d , 49 ) , including the   extra - linguistic context of situation . Harris and   Firth both understand any linguistic analysis as in-   complete , for Harris always a pursuit of the least   description ” ( Harris , 1988 , 3)—i.e . , best “ grammar ”   or model — for Firth always grounded in the social   construction of facts , without any possibility of   “ complete axiomatization ” ( Firth , 1968d , 44–45 ) .   From the perspective of empirical work , espe-   cially decades after their time , Firth and Harris   also share similarities . Both rejected the mentalism   that was so prevalent during their time . They were   both revived as empiricist originators during the   rise of statistical learning in the 1990s , and their   respective work on restricted languages and sublan-   guages largely conflated in service of the practical   concerns of corpus linguistics ( Léon , 2008 ) . Their   theories both included in what we might call a “ re-   ality principle , ” a final arbiter of meaning outside   of form : the pair test for Harris , the context of situ-   ation for Firth . The former grounds linguistics in   the smallest possible unit of analysis as understood   by the native speaker , the latter in social actions   and objects .   In light of recent calls to extend the “ world scope ”   ( Bisk et al . , 2020 ) of NLP and to move towards   pragmatic notions of meaning , it might make sense   to balance Harris ’s formalism and Firth ’s pluralism .   Though Firth warned us against overextending lin-   guistics , he was generous with the company that   words could keep . They mingled with each other , but also with events , objects , people , and indexical   features such as time and space . And if NLP is   ready to move beyond the corpus , then even Harris   might acknowledge that when modeling language   in “ the immediate situation”—whether in online in-   teractions or face - to - face communication — words   arenoton their own , that to judge the meaning of a   combination of words , we can summon “ the aid of   some of the extra - linguistic situational information ”   ( Harris , 1991 , 368 ) . In the following subsections ,   we consider two ways in which NLP is already do-   ing this , in order to highlight some already existing   strategies for broader contextualization . We call   these strategies “ comparative stratification ” and   “ syntagmatic extension . ”   5.1 Comparative stratification   Corpus linguistics emerges from the question of   what kind of company words keep , depending on   their context . The issue of context was motivated   by the introduction of corpus linguistics both for   students of Firth — who considered restricted lan-   guages as a way of handling context — and for Har-   ris ’s sublanguages , which were “ contextually sit-   uated and suitable for being processed automati-   cally ” ( Léon , 2021 , 149–150 ) . However , beyond   just studying the restricted corpus , we might also   consider the ways in which large datasets can be   “ stratified , ” systematically dividing them into sub-   corpora that are studied in relation to each other .   Here , the company that words keep among each   other is limited for analytical purposes , but in a   manner that implies a relationship between that   “ company ” and situational context .   Diachronic embeddings are especially represen-   tative of this approach . By stratifying timestamped   data into a number of intervals , training separate   models for each and then aligning the embeddings   using either “ second - order embeddings ” or meth-   ods such as linear transformations ( Kutuzov et al . ,   2018 ) , the analyst can effectively represent a tem-   poral “ context of situation . ” This approach works   with both static ( Hamilton et al . , 2016 ) and con-   textual embeddings ( Martinc et al . , 2020 ) . While   variants of this approach are most commonly used   to study semantic shifts ( e.g. , Garg et al . , 2018 ;   Kozlowski et al . , 2019 ; Mendelsohn et al . , 2020 ) , it   could plausibly be used to stratify a dataset accord-   ing to other variables such as space ( e.g. Bamman   et al . , 2014 ; Gong et al . , 2020 ) , online communi-   ties ( Lucy and Bamman , 2021 ) , persons ( Yao et al . ,44102020 ) , or domains ( Spinde et al . , 2021 ) . Words still   only keep the company of one another , but by lim-   iting their company we implicitly introduce other   participants in the analysis .   5.2 Syntagmatic extension   Recall that for Firth , meaning by collocation and   considerations of a “ typical context of situation ”   ( Firth , 1950 , 44 ) were exercises in abstraction , with   collocation being an abstraction at the syntagmatic   level . Instead of restricting the company words   keep , we might follow Firth ’s recommendation to   consider them in wider company “ of the same ab-   stract nature ” ( Firth , 1950 , 7 ) . In vector semantics ,   this would imply that we explicitly introduce dif-   ferent contextual factors in the same vector space   with our words , endowing them all with ontological   equality .   The paragraph vectors introduced by Le and   Mikolov ( 2014 ) as an extension of the earlier Skip-   gram algorithm ( Mikolov et al . , 2013 ) are represen-   tative for this approach . In practice , this method   extends the syntagmatic chain of words by intro-   ducing a vector for the document as a new paradig-   matic element . In principle , this type of “ global   context ” ( Grbovic and Cheng , 2018 ) could be any-   thing and include several paradigmatic elements , as   we can see in the research on multi - modal embed-   dings ( e.g. Baroni , 2016 ) and generative modeling   ( e.g. Ramesh et al . , 2022).Models have been de-   veloped that include demographic ( Garimella et al . ,   2017 ) or persona ( Li et al . , 2016 ) vectors in the em-   bedding space , such that intra - textual relations are   accompanied by information about speakers ’ so-   cial categories . However , implemented with static   embeddings and without some additional grammar   restrictions , these context vectors essentially add   only a “ bag of contexts . ” For static embeddings , ad-   ditional grammar constraints could be introduced ,   as was done in research on Point - of - Interest ( POI )   data in the the domain of geosemantics , where re-   searchers constrained contextual vectors using spa-   tial variograms ( Yan et al . , 2017 ) . Beyond static   embeddings , large - language models and their dy-   namic embeddings could either be pretrained ( with   the appropriate dataset ) or finetuned on data withtext associated with different contextual variables .   This would realize the proposal that Halliday made   in the early 1990s when he suggested an extension   of the language modeling schema from the early   work of Shannon , to a model with “ global proba-   bilities , those of the grammar of English , and the   locally conditioned probabilities , those of this or   that particular register ” ( Halliday , 1991 , 37 ) .   6 Conclusions   This paper revisited the theories of the two most   well - known progenitors of the distributional ap-   proach to meaning in NLP . Recognizing the open   question of how to bring NLP beyond the corpus ,   we offer a thorough account of the two distribu-   tional theories that are most often invoked to justify   the modeling of meaning through departures from   randomness in the company that words keep . Com-   paring the work of Harris and Firth — who both   published their major work before the rise of the   internet and its corpora — we find two distinct theo-   ries of distribution : one formal and mathematical ,   treating language as a particular type of detached   information , another more schematic and anthropo-   logical , treating language as a functional spectrum   which always emanates from a particular context of   situation . The legacies of both Firth and Harris can   be seen in the current paradigm of corpus linguis-   tics , but in the domain of distributional semantics ,   it is Harris ’s ethos that dominates , despite Firth   providing its most famous tagline .   Moving forward , we suggest that semantic mod-   eling take more inspiration from Firth , and con-   sider the context of situation and the wide variety   of company that words can keep as crucial sites of   innovation for the field . Doing so may not involve   following a finite set of steps or flowchart . Rather ,   we humbly suggest that the field may be enriched   by thoughtful and creative re - engagements with the   intellectual traditions from which it has historically   drawn . This does not imply abandoning the rigor   provided by Harris . On the contrary , we find that   Firth and Harris would probably have agreed that   any model or “ grammar ” is inevitably incomplete   and partial . No universal model is possible , de-   spite the large - language modeling fervor , nor will   there be one theory of language to guide us . There   are only the partial perspectives and the inevitable   choice of adapting one.4411Acknowledgements   We would like to thank Dan Jurafsky and Jacque-   line Léon for their gracious and helpful comments   which greatly improved the paper . Mikael Brunila   is funded by the Kone Foundation , and Jack LaVio-   lette is funded by the Mellon Foundation . We thank   them for their generous support .   References441244134414441544164417