  Zaiqian Chen , Daniel Verdi do Amarante , Jenna Donaldson , Yohan Jo , Joonsuk ParkColumbia University , University of Richmond , Amazon , NA VER AI Lab   zc2666@columbia.edu ,   { daniel.verdidoamarante , jenna.donaldson}@richmond.edu ,   jyoha@amazon.com , park@joonsuk.org   Abstract   The importance of reliably determining the   helpfulness of product reviews is rising as both   helpful and unhelpful reviews continue to ac-   cumulate on e - commerce websites . And argu-   mentational features — such as the structure of   arguments and the types of underlying elemen-   tary units — have shown to be promising indi-   cators of product review helpfulness . How-   ever , their adoption has been limited due to   the lack of sufficient resources and large - scale   experiments investigating their utility . To this   end , we present the AMazon Argument Min-   ing ( AM ) corpus — a corpus of 878 Amazon   reviews on headphones annotated according to   a theoretical argumentation model designed to   evaluate argument quality . Experiments show   that employing argumentational features leads   to statistically significant improvements over   the state - of - the - art review helpfulness predic-   tors under both text - only and text - and - image   settings .   1 Introduction   With the rapid growth of e - commerce , reading product   reviews is increasingly becoming a part of online shop-   ping . Going beyond the seller ’s description of the prod-   ucts , potential customers are considering the firsthand   experiences and opinions of those who have already   purchased the products . Fortunately , product reviews   are quickly accumulating on popular e - commerce web-   sites like Amazon.com on a daily basis ; however , not all   reviews are helpful , necessitating automatic prediction   of their helpfulness ( Ocampo Diaz and Ng , 2018 ; Qu   et al . , 2020 ) .   A wide variety of features for helpfulness prediction   has been proposed in the past , including those from the   review ( Diaz and Ng , 2018 ) , the reviewer ( Tang et al . ,   2013 ) , and the product ( Ghose and Ipeirotis , 2011 ) .   Among these , argumentational features ( AFs ) from the   review text have shown potential in small - scale experi-   ments ( Liu et al . , 2017 ; Passon et al . , 2018 ) .   To see how AFs can be useful for predicting the help-   fulness of product reviews , consider two reviews on[Good item for the price . ] [ Easy to charge . ] [ Only   one headband to deal with . ] [ A " marriage saver " ]   [ because I do n’t have to listen to my wife ’s shows , es-   pecially when I go to bed before her . ] [ My wife says   " I like them " . ] Figure 1 : A Review with a High Helpfulness V ote   Count . The propositions collectively form a coherent   argument . Also , the review does not just contain opin-   ions , but testimony and other objective information .   [ Skull Candy ’s are the best earbuds in their price range   that you could buy ... until they break . ] [ They include   a one year warranty , ] [ but often times , for such a low-   priced product , its easier to just purchase a new one . ]   [ So definitely , purchase these earbuds , ] [ but do n’t ex-   pect more than a few months out of them until one side   burns out . ] Figure 2 : A Review with 0 Helpfulness V otes . Un-   like the helpful review example ( Figure 1 ) , this review   has a poor argumentative structure , e.g. , it lacks support   for the proposition that the headphones are the best in   their price range . Also , it consists mostly of subjective   propositions like V and P .   headphones crawled from Amazon.com . Figure 1 is a   review that accrued a high number of helpfulness votes ,   annotated according to our scheme presented in Sec-   tion 2 . The main proposition that the product is a “ good   item for the price ” has been supported by three propo-   sitions . One of those is further supported by a firsthand   experience ( testimony ) of the reviewer . In this way , the   propositions collectively form a coherent argument . In   contrast , Figure 2 , a review that had not received any   helpfulness votes , has a much more sparse argumenta-   tive structure ; it lacks support for major points made in   the review , nor does it contain a testimony . As demon-   strated , AFs can be good indicators of helpfulness .   However , the adoption of AFs has been limited in   part by the unavailability of sufficient resources . An-8914   2 Annotation Scheme   3 The AMCorpus89158916   4 Review Helpfulness Prediction8917   5 Conclusion89186 Limitations   7 Ethical Considerations   AcknowledgmentsReferences8919   A Appendix892089218922