  Ssu ChiuMaolin LiYen - Ting LinYun - Nung ChenNational Taiwan University , Taipei , TaiwanMediaTek Research , Cambridge , UK   Abstract   Dialogue systems are usually categorized into   two types , open - domain and task - oriented .   The ﬁrst one focuses on chatting with users   and making them engage in the conversations ,   where selecting a proper topic to ﬁt the dia-   logue context is essential for a successful dia-   logue . The other one focuses on a speciﬁc task   instead of casual talks , e.g. , ﬁnding a movie on   Friday night , playing a song . These two direc-   tions have been studied separately due to their   different purposes . However , how to smoothly   transition from social chatting to task - oriented   dialogues is important for triggering the busi-   ness opportunities , and there is no any pub-   lic data focusing on such scenarios . Hence ,   this paper focuses on investigating the conver-   sations starting from open - domain social chat-   ting and then gradually transitioning to task-   oriented purposes , and releases a large - scale   dataset with detailed annotations for encour-   aging this research direction . To achieve this   goal , this paper proposes a framework to auto-   matically generate many dialogues without hu-   man involvement , in which any powerful open-   domain dialogue generation model can be eas-   ily leveraged . The human evaluation shows   that our generated dialogue data has a natural   ﬂow at a reasonable quality , showing that our   released data has a great potential of guiding   future research directions and commercial ac-   tivities . Furthermore , the released models al-   low researchers to automatically generate un-   limited dialogues in the target scenarios , which   can greatly beneﬁt semi - supervised and unsu-   pervised approaches .   1 Introduction   Until now , researchers have often separated open-   domain and task - oriented dialogues as two distinct   types of tasks in the dialogue ﬁeld . The publicly   available datasets focuses on either open - domainFigure 1 : A generated example of smoothly transition-   ing from chit - chat to task - oriented dialogues . The sales   discovers the user has a potential task - oriented intent   related to watching movies and then decides to ask for   the user ’s movie preference .   or task - oriented dialogues . For example , a lot of   prior work focused on building open - domain dia-   logue systems ( Li et al . , 2017 ; Zhang et al . , 2018 ;   Adiwardana et al . , 2020a ) , which chat with users   via suitable , engaging , safe conversations . With   the capability of pre - trained models , a large set   of human conversations is adopted to train their   capability of free chatting ( Zhang et al . , 2020 ; Adi-   wardana et al . , 2020b ; Roller et al . , 2021 ) . Al-   though these models show the outstanding capa-   bility of communicating with human , they are not   able to complete tasks as human assistants . On the   other hand , MultiWoz ( Budzianowski et al . , 2018 ;   Hosseini - Asl et al . , 2020 ) and Schema - Guided Di-   alogue ( SGD ) ( Rastogi et al . , 2020 ) are two popu-   lar large - scale datasets of task - oriented dialogues ,   which include plenty of multi - domain dialogues   with state information to track users ’ behaviors . In   task - oriented scenarios , the users have their goals6143before starting the conversations , so the way we   evaluate the system ’s performance is whether the   system can successfully complete the users ’ goals .   However , both skills of social chatting and task-   oriented dialogues are important and may be used   in a single conversation .   Considering that both skills are essential for a   human - like dialogue system , the recent work ( Sun   et al . , 2021 ) merged those two capabilities by in-   serting chit - chat sentences into the existing task-   oriented dialogue data . The idea is to allow the   agent gains more social , personalized communica-   tion skills when focusing on task - oriented dialogue   generation . Even the released data contains both   social and task - oriented dialogues , each dialogue   still focuses on a task - oriented scenario where the   user has the goal before starting the conversation .   In our target scenarios as illustrated in Figure 1 ,   the conversation starts without any speciﬁc goal in   the user ’s mind , and the agent explores the poten-   tial task - oriented intents and smoothly transitions   to a task - oriented conversation . The focus of this   paper is more similar to a salesperson ’s capability ,   where he / she needs to chat with the user and dis-   covers the implicit task - oriented intents that ﬁt the   business purposes and navigates the user to com-   plete a task , such as purchasing a product , reserv-   ing a restaurant , or booking a hotel room . Hence ,   a new pipeline for constructing such data is pro-   posed . Each dialogue in the released dataset starts   with discovering a potential task - oriented intent of   a user in the social conversation and ends in com-   pleting a speciﬁc task . Even though high - quality   chit - chats and task - oriented dialogues can be sepa-   rately generated shown in prior work ( Hosseini - Asl   et al . , 2020 ; Adiwardana et al . , 2020b ; Roller et al . ,   2021 ) , how to generate our desired dialogues has   not been fully studied and remained unresolved .   Yu et al . ( 2017 ) built a dialogue framework for   users not having a clear intention , where mixing   social responses into the conversation guides the   ﬂow to a speciﬁc movie they want to promote . Our   paper has a similar idea about exploring the po-   tential topics in the social conversations and then   promoting the targeted tasks . Although the prior   work proposed the proper framework for the tar-   get scenarios , it required manual rules for dialogue   strategies , making it difﬁcult to scale . Also , it only   covers a single domain ( movie ) and there is no   any publicly available data for following researchwork . This paper covers more common topics by   taking advantage of the existing natural language   generation models trained on substantial dialogue   datasets , and releases the ﬁrst large - scale dialogue   dataset with conversations naturally transitioning   from chit - chats to task - oriented forms . Our contri-   butions can be summarized as 4 - fold :   •We present a framework with a simulated   user and a simulated salesperson to automat-   ically generate dialogues that smoothly tran-   sitions from social chit - chats to task - oriented   dialogues , where the components inside the   framework can be easily replaced by any de-   sired models for better ﬂexibility .   •Human evaluation on the generated dialogues   demonstrates that the proposed method pro-   duces dialogues with reasonable quality and   natural conversation ﬂows .   •We release the ﬁrstlarge - scale dataset of di-   alogues transitioning from chit - chat to task-   oriented scenarios , which contains the auto-   matically generated dialogues and the detailed   human annotations for enabling the future re-   search work .   •The released framework with both user and   sales simulators allows researchers to generate   unlimited dialogues for semi - supervised and   unsupervised usage .   2 Proposed Approach   Figure 2 illustrates our proposed framework for   constructing the dataset . It can be divided into three   main parts : ( 1 ) open - domain dialogue generation ,   ( 2 ) chit - chat to task - oriented transition , and ( 3 ) task-   oriented dialogue ( TOD ) generation .   2.1 Open - Domain Dialogue Generation   As shown in Figure 1 , the conversations start with   social chatting between users and salespersons .   To generate high - quality open - domain dialogues ,   the pre - trained dialogue generation models can be   adopted . Here we choose BlenderBot ( Roller et al . ,   2021 ) as our pre - trained generation model due to   its outstanding capability trained on the largest-   ever open - domain data . It shows the ability to be   engaging , knowledgeable , and empathetic at a cer-   tain level by multi - tasking on the Blended Skill   Talk ( BST ) dataset ( Smith et al . , 2020 ) with several   different datasets blending .   Because users may explore any topics they want6144   to discuss in a real - world setting , we manipulate   the user and the sales to have different personas   in order to cover wide - range topics in our gener-   ated dialogues . This can be easily implemented by   the package ParlAI(Miller et al . , 2017 ) , which al-   lows us to build two BlenderBots to self - chat with   each other in order to construct various dialogues   involving different personas ( Smith et al . , 2020 ) .   2.2 Chit - Chat to Task - Oriented Transition   From a salesperson ’s perspective , how to capture   the suitable timing andhow to promote the target   products / tasks are two main challenges . This pa-   per proposes two components to address the above   issues ; speciﬁcally , a task - oriented intent detector   and a transition turn generator focus on capturing   the suitable timing and deciding how to smoothly   transition to the target task respectively .   2.2.1 Task - Oriented Intent Detection   To ﬁnd out the good timing during social chatting ,   we focus on detecting whether the user currently   has an implicit intent related to the target tasks . In   our case , an intent indicates what a user desires to   do or what he / she is very likely to do if someone en-   courages him / her to do so . If our intent detector is   able to capture any task - oriented intent in the social   content with diverse topics , it tells us the suitable   timing for guiding the dialogue to a speciﬁc topic   and then transition to a corresponding task - oriented   conversation . Table 1 shows the intents we focus   on in this paper , and other desired intents can be   easily extended by our approach .   Although detecting intents in task - oriented dia-   logues has been studied for long time , the intent   detection models trained on task - oriented datasets   can not be directly utilized . The reason is that the in-   tents in our scenarios are different from the intents   in classical task - oriented data , where former ones   are more implicit and the latter ones are more ex-   plicit . For example , a user utterance with the intent   FindAttraction in our case may be “ I never visit   France , but I heard that it is a good place . ” instead   of “ Find me the landmarks in Paris . ” in classical   task - oriented dialogue datasets . Therefore , this pa-   per proposes to leverage the powerful capability   of question answering ( QA ) systems to identify   the potential task - oriented intents in a zero - shot   fashion ( Namazifar et al . , 2020 ) . Speciﬁcally , we   use the pre - trained QA model and ask whether the   user has a certain intent given the current dialogue .   The questions need to be designed for describing   the target task - oriented intents , and we use the fol-   lowing ways to create the questions focusing on   task - oriented intents .   1.Questions based on descriptions : we create   questions associated with all intents based on   their natural language descriptions , e.g. “ Is   the intent asking about playing songs ? ” for   the intent PlaySong .   2.Paraphrased questions : to enhance the de-   tection recall for open - domain dialogues , for   each intent , we paraphrase the description-   based questions via a high - quality paraphras-6145   ing T5 model pre - trained on Quora Ques-   tion Pairs data for its paraphrasing capability   ( Wang et al . , 2017 ) .   The proposed intent detector is illustrated in Fig-   ure 3 , where the inputs are the open - domain con-   versation along with intent - related questions , and   the outputs are Yes / No answers to these questions .   We assume that a user has a task - oriented intent   when the detector outputs Yes to the associated   question . Note that any type of QA models can be   adopted in our framework . Here we start with a QA   model pre - trained on large open - domain QA data ,   e.g. , SQuAD ( Rajpurkar et al . , 2018 ) or Common-   senseQA ( Talmor et al . , 2019 ) , which is supposed   to be equipped with certain common knowledge   and the reasoning ability useful for our intent de-   tector . Furthermore , the general QA model may   not be capable of correctly answering intent - related   questions since the contexts and questions differ a   lot from ones in the general QA data . To reduce   the mismatch , we ﬁne - tune the QA model on a   publicly available task - oriented dataset ( e.g. , SGD ) .   Speciﬁcally , the annotated intents in task - oriented   dialogues are utilized to create the associated QA   data , where there is a ground truth answer ( Yes / No )   to each intent - related question at all dialogue turns .   Then the built training data ( TOD - QA shown in   Figure 3 ) allows the general QA model to better   identify task - oriented intents . Although ﬁne - tuned   on the task - oriented dataset , we ﬁnd that the model   beneﬁts from pre - training and thus it can be well   applied to open - domain dialogues .   2.2.2 Transition Turn Generation   This section describes how we generate the tran-   sition turn that bridges open - domain and task-   oriented dialogues . Our transition turn generation   procedure is composed of two parts : 1 ) using a tem-   plate transition sentence to trigger the correspond-   ing task - oriented user reaction and 2 ) re - generating   the transition turn for better ﬂuency and diversity .   Template - based For each task - oriented intent ,   we adapt its intent description in the ontology to   create a corresponding template question ( e.g. , Do   you want to [ Intent Description ] ? ) as the transition   sentence shown in the upper block of Figure 4 . Al-   though using template - based transition is simple   and effective , it however makes the salesperson too   aggressive and invariant to be professional .   Generative - based To improve the ﬂuency of   transition and increase the diversity of word us-   age , we propose a generative - based approach to   re - generate more smooth and nature transitions .   With a similar idea as ( Ennen et al . , 2021 ; Seveg-   nani et al . , 2021 ) , our goal is to predict a transition   utterance that can naturally bridge the past and the   future utterances as below .   p(aju ; u ) = p(aju ; u ; a ) ;   where ais the current utterance , uis the past   utterance , uis the future utterance , and kthe   k - th token in a.   Speciﬁcally , we feed the last user ’s open - domain   utterance and the ﬁrst user ’s task - oriented utterance   in our generated data as inputs , and learn to predict   the template transition turn . To learn the capability   of connecting different topics smoothly , the newly   published data OTTers ( Sevegnani et al . , 2021 )   is leveraged for training our generative model .   This data focuses on bridging two different topics   via the transition in an entity path of a common-   sense knowledge graph . The assumption of using   this dataset is that open - domain utterances can be   viewed as the previous topic and task - oriented utter-   ances as the new one , so learning the transition turn6146is the same as learning how to smoothly transition   from open - domain to task - oriented dialogues .   2.3 Task - Oriented Dialogue Generation   After detecting the potential task - oriented intent   and generating the transition turn , it is natural to   continue the dialogue in a task - oriented scenario   illustrated in the right part of Figure 2 . Here we   propose two ways of generating task - oriented dia-   logues following the transition turn .   Merge SGD It is naive to simply merge an ap-   propriate task - oriented dialogue taken from TOD   data with a chit - chat dialogue to create such dia-   logue . In more details , all task - oriented dialogues   in the SGD dataset are grouped by intents , and   one TOD dialogue is sampled based on the de-   tected task - oriented intent to append to the tran-   sition turn and form a new dialogue containing   both chit - chat and TOD . Note that the delexical-   ized version of SGD ( Sun et al . , 2021 ) is used to   avoid severe inconsistency between open - domain   and task - oriented parts .   Task - Oriented Simulation Different from open-   domain social chatting , the roles in task - oriented di-   alogues are important . Therefore , two task - oriented   simulators are trained , one for users and another   for salespersons . Considering that training on   task - oriented dialogues from scratch may limit the   diversity of the generated dialogues , to generate   the context - aware , ﬂuent , and consistent conversa-   tions , we use the same type of open - domain dia-   logue generation models , BlenderBot ( Roller et al . ,   2021 ) , and additionally train on either user turns   or agent turns in task - oriented dialogues for TOD   User BlenderBot and TOD Sales BlenderBot . By   allowing two simulators to talk with each other ,   they can generate endless conversations until one   of the termination conditions is satisﬁed . There   are three commonly used termination strategies we   use when building our dataset : ( 1 ) Any pre - deﬁned   keyword appears in the utterance , e.g. , bye . ( 2 ) The   sales simulator generates a special token represent-   ing the ending of a dialogue . ( 3 ) When the dialogue   starts to repeat itself , i.e. , repeatedly producing the   same utterances , because it usually means no more   useful information .   The proposed framework enables us to con-   struct a large - scale dataset with dialogues transi-   tioning from open - domain to task - oriented scenar-   ios , which align well with the salesperson ’s busi-   ness potential.3 Data Quality Evaluation   We use a widely - used crowdsourcing platform ,   Amazon Mechanical Turk ( AMT ) , to collect hu-   man feedback for our generated dialogues .   3.1 Model Settings   Intent Detector Our QA model is DistillBert   ( Sanh et al . , 2020 ) pre - trained on the general QA   data , SQuAD 2.0 ( Rajpurkar et al . , 2018 ) , and then   ﬁne - tuned on TOD data , SGD . The value of learn-   ing rate and batch size are 3e-5 and 64 respectively   with AdamW optimizer ( Loshchilov and Hutter ,   2019 ) for 20 epochs .   Transition The T5 ( T5 - small ) model is trained   to generate transitions with a learning rate of 5e-   5 with Adafactor optimizer ( Shazeer and Stern ,   2018 ) and batch size of 16 . We train our models   for 5 epochs and select the model with lowest loss   in the dev set . During decoding , we mix top - K   sampling of 80 and top - p ( nucleus ) sampling of   0.95 ( Holtzman et al . , 2020 ) .   Dialogue Generation To generate task - oriented   utterances , we train our two simulators on the   model BlenderBot-400Mwith the same training   setting with generative transition . During gener-   ation , we use top - K sampling ( Fan et al . , 2018 ) ,   where K is set to 120 for encouraging more diver-   sity in dialogues .   3.2 Crowdsourcing Tasks   We randomly pick about 4,000 dialogues for two   human evaluation tasks submit to AMT . The ﬁrst   task is designed for collecting feedback about the   entire dialogue , while the second one focuses on   thetransition part due to the main goal of this   paper . Table 2 shows the dialogue example pre-   sented to crowdworkers for evaluation . Because   our target dialogues can be viewed as salespersons ’   capability , we describe the context to the recruited   crowdworkers that the given dialogues are between   a beginner salesperson and his / her customer and   ask workers to provide feedback from different as-   pects in terms of the sales ’ strategies . Note that   the annotators are not aware that the dialogues are   machine - generated , so the collected feedback is   for human sales communication skills . Each task   is brieﬂy described below , and the full annotation   guideline can be found in the Appendix B.6147   Task 1 : Salesperson - Customer Conversation   The workers were presented with one entire di-   alogue and asked to rate ( from 1 to 5 ) the entire   conversation from three aspects : Relevance ( Q1 —   How relevant is the recommended product or ser-   vice to the conversation context ? ) , Aggressiveness   ( Q2 — How aggressive is the salesperson ’s com-   munication strategy ? ) , and Overall ( Q3 — Do you   think the sales conversation is overall a good exam-   ple of making a sales recommendations ? ) .   Task 2 : Chit - Chat to Task - Oriented Transition   In addition to the entire dialogue , we also explic-   itly highlight the transition turn in the dialogue   when presenting to crowdworkers . Similarly to   the ﬁrst task but only focusing on the transition   part , we asked workers to rate from 1 to 5 from   the following aspects : Right Time ( Q1 — Is it a   good timing to make the transition ? ) , Relevance   ( Q2 — Is the transition relevant to the conversation   context ? ) , Aggressiveness ( Q3 — Is the transition   aggressive ? ) , and Overall ( Q4 — Do you think it   is overall a good transition ? ) . In each question ,   the detailed descriptions of all ratings are given to   crowdworkers to ensure they have consistent under-   standing for all ratings . In addition , to enrich the   transition turns and ensure their quality , we gen-   erate 4 additional transitions and ask workers to   choose the best one . All transitions and ratings are   included in our released data .   Task 3 : Customer ’s Implicit Intent Consider-   ing that detecting potential intents plays an impor-   tant role in our framework , we further investigate   the inﬂuence of intent detectors . To evaluate the   performance of different detectors , crowdworkers   are presented with a conversation snippet and the   detected intent results from three detectors , and   they are asked to rank the intents in terms of their   relevance to the conversation . Three evaluated de-   tectors are : Detector1 — pre - trained on SQuAD 2.0   ( Section 3.1 ) , Detector2 — additionally pre - trained   on SWAG ( Zellers et al . , 2018 ) and Common-   senseQA ( Talmor et al . , 2019 ) , and Detector3 —   adapted from TransferQA ( Lin et al . , 2021 ) , which   learns dialogue state tracking knowledge from sev-   eral general QA datasets . We evaluate 1,500 con-   versation snippets , and three workers are recruited   to rank intents for each snippet .   4 Results and Analysis   For brevity , we use Tto denote Task in the follow-   ing . Each dialogue is evaluated by three crowd-   workers so that we can check the annotation vari-   ance for reliable results .   4.1 Generated Dialogue Evaluation   Table 3 presents the statistics of the randomly sam-   pled dialogues submitted to AMT . The average   length of chit - chat turns in Merge SGD andTOD   Simulation are about 4.5 . The evaluation results of   all dialogues are visualized in the top charts of Fig-   ure 5 , and the bottom charts show the results for ex-   isting TOD data ( Merge ) and simulator - generated   TOD ( Simulator ) .   It can be observed that our framework is able   to produce context - relevant task - oriented conversa-   tions to match the topic of open - domain dialogues   ( Q1 in T1 ; Q2 in T2 ) . This indicates that we can   ensure the dialogue ﬂow from open - domain to task-   oriented dialogues is natural . The median relevance   scores are slightly higher than the Neutral line , sug-6148   gesting that our sales simulator can perform his   sales strategy without annoying customers . The ob-   servation further demonstrates the feasibility and   effectiveness of our proposed method . In terms   of the salesperson ’s aggressiveness , crowdworkers   think that the transition is neutral and somewhat   aggressive , showing that smoothly transitioning is   still an important research problem to explore . Fur-   thermore , the transition timing scores ( Q1 in T2 )   also demonstrate that our proposed task - oriented   intent detection can capture a suitable moment in   a zero - shot setting , so that the sales may not miss   any business opportunity of product promotion .   We can observe that most of overall scores ( Q3   in T1 ; Q4 in T2 ) are above Neutral ( Score 3 ) , indi-   cating that the generated dialogues and transitions   are overall good for a salesperson ’s business per-   spective . The human judgement demonstrates that   our proposed approach is capable of simulating a   large - scale reasonable dialogues aligned with ourpurpose , implying that both research community   and industries can greatly beneﬁt from our released   data and the built simulators that can continuously   generate more data for training . Our framework   and the constructed dataset reduce the cost for large-   scale data requirement for better practice .   To further investigate whether the proposed TOD   simulators described in Section 2.3 can generate   reasonable dialogues compared to Merge SGD , we   visualize their individual scores as shown at the   bottom of Figure 5 . There is no signiﬁcant dif-   ference between two groups , and we further in-   vestigate their score distribution of each question   shown in Figure 6 . Both results tell that given the   context of open - domain utterances , our TOD simu-   lators are able to generate the suitable task - oriented   dialogues with comparable quality to those from   the publicly available benchmark TOD data – SGD .   Consequently , our framework can be utilized to   generate large - scale data cost - effectively and the   generation quality is comparable with the current   benchmark dialogue data.6149   4.2 Intent Detector Comparison   Table 4 shows the average ranks of three detec-   tors described in T3 . We ﬁnd that Detector1 ( pre-   trained on SQuAD 2.0 ) and Detector2 ( pre - trained   on SQuad 2.0 , SWAG , CommonsenseQA ) per-   form almost the same , implying that simply pre-   training on extra commonsense - related QA data   may not signiﬁcantly improve the ability of detect-   ing implicit intents . Possible reasons may be either   that these datasets include quite similar knowledge   about our target intents , or our zero - shot QA model   reaches its capacity bottleneck . How to better uti-   lize commonsense knowledge for detecting poten-   tial intents can be further investigated in the fu-   ture . Lin et al . ( 2021 ) has demonstrated Detector3   ( trained on several QA datasets ) is able to achieve   decent dialogue state tracking performance in zero-   shot settings . Therefore , we did not ﬁne - tune it on   the task - oriented datasets such as SGD Detector1   and Detector2 are ﬁne - tuned on . However , accord-   ing to its average rank , Detector3 is signiﬁcantly   worse than other detectors . Probably because the   intents in chit - chat conversations are more implicit   and complex than task - oriented intents , the abil-   ity of detecting implicit intents can not be easily   transferred .   4.3 Potential Research of Released Data   In addition to the proposed framework and the re-   leased dataset , our collected human judgement has   the potential of providing valuable contributions todialogue community and industrial products . Each   question along with its corresponding scores can   be treated as a interested task , and we brieﬂy de-   scribe some ( but not limited to ) examples of crowd-   sourced data usage .   The human scores from T1 can be formulated as   classiﬁcation or regression annotations which mea-   sure the relevance between a recommended product   and a conversation context , whether a salesperson   in a dialogue is too aggressive , or the overall qual-   ity of a sales dialogue . Similarly , we can apply   these ideas to T2 , which focuses on evaluating tran-   sitions . Particularly , deciding when is a good to   perform a transition can be an interesting topic for   future research . This will also beneﬁt industries to   develop more intelligent dialogue systems interact-   ing with customers . Moreover , the rank annotations   provided by workers from T3 can be considered   as high - quality data for training a ranking model   or an intent detector . Apart from this , the data can   also be utilized as a gold standard to assess the   performance of different algorithms predicting user   implicit intents . We expect these examples will   inspire the community and industries to discover   more interesting research directions and applica-   tions .   5 Related Work   Our work is related to dataset construction for build-   ing persuasive dialogue systems that try to persuade   the participant to take a speciﬁc action . Hiraoka   et al . ( 2014 ) annotated 34 dialogues , in which an ex-   perienced salesperson tries to convince a customer   to buy a camera . Yoshino et al . ( 2018 ) requested   crowdsourcing workers to generate 200 persuasive   dialogues . In each dialogue , one participant per-   suaded another one to adopt his suggestion such   as cleaning a room . Wang et al . ( 2019 ) collected   1017 dialogues , in which one of the participants   was convinced to donate to a speciﬁc charity . We   can see that the covered conversation scenarios in   these datasets were strictly limited to speciﬁc tasks ,   while our scenarios are more general and can be   easily extended to different cases . Also , our con-   structed dataset is about three times larger than the   prior work , indicating the usefulness of the recent   pre - trained paradigm .   The topic of conversational recommendation sys-   tems is also related to our work . A number of at-   tempts have been made to collect training data for6150conversational recommendation systems . These   studies ( Wu et al . , 2019 ; Zhou et al . , 2020 ; Xu   et al . , 2020 ) ﬁrst extracted a path consisting of an   entity or attribute nodes from a knowledge base .   Then they asked annotators to write conversational   recommendation dialogues . The ﬂow of mentioned   topics in a dialogue should follow the extracted   path . Similarly , Liu et al . ( 2020 ) also built a dataset   by asking human workers to create dialogues based   on a topic path . It should be noted that , in these   datasets , the goal of such systems is to only make   entity recommendations instead of tasks , while our   work goes beyond them in naturally transferring   from chit - chat to task - oriented dialogues and com-   pleting a task the user may want .   Another related work is generating a transition   between two given open - domain utterances . Tang   et al . ( 2019 ) proposed to generate the transition   conditional on a speciﬁc word , because they want   the generated transition can drive the conversation   topic to the speciﬁed word . Sevegnani et al . ( 2021 )   collected a new dataset of human - created one - turn   topic transitions . Each dialogue contains 2 utter-   ances with different topics and 1 transition in the   middle of them .   There are some recent studies trying to merge   chit - chat and task - oriented dialogues , but the pur-   poses of merged dialogues differ from ours . Sun   et al . ( 2021 ) enhanced the utterances in task-   oriented dialogues by appending chit - chat sen-   tences . They hope that the agent gains more so-   cial , personalized , and engaging communication   skills . Ennen et al . ( 2021 ) proposed a dialogue sys-   tem that can transfer the style of generated response   from chit - chat to task - oriented styles . However , the   system is a prototype model , there is still a large   gap to properly bridge chitchat and task - oriented   dialogues . The motivation of our work is closely   similar to the studies by Yu et al . ( 2017 ) and Young   et al . ( 2022 ) . Yu et al . ( 2017 ) manually created   several task - oriented response generation strate-   gies speciﬁcally designed for the movie promotion   scenario . In addition , the expert knowledge was   utilized to design reinforcement learning rewards   that help their dialogue system to decide which ac-   tion to take ( i.e. , continuing chit - chat or selecting   a task - oriented strategy to reply ) . In order to fuse   open - domain and task - oriented dialogues to a com-   plete and natural conversation , Young et al . ( 2022 )   manually rewrote existing task - oriented utterancesand added new open - domain conversations . The   most crucial difference between their work and   ours is that , in their dialogues , the user “ explicitly ”   expressed his / her intentions indicating clear clues   about when and how to naturally transit from chit-   chat to task - oriented conversations , while our user   intentions are “ implicit ” which makes detection   and transition more challenging .   However , we also observe that the prior work in   these studies heavily relied on human efforts ( data   collection , expert - created strategies , etc . ) . There-   fore , it can be expensive and hard to extend their   data or method the practical cases due to the re-   quirement of larger - scale training data . Our pro-   posed framework beneﬁts from the pre - trained   models and shows its outstanding conversational   capability . The ﬂexibility of extending to diverse   cases is also validated , considering that all com-   ponents inside the framework can be easily substi-   tuted by the updated models , and the generated data   can be used by semi - supervised or unsupervised   methods for cold - start scenarios .   6 Conclusion   This paper proposes a novel framework to gener-   ate dialogues that naturally transition from open-   domain to task - oriented scenarios at a large scale   without heavy human efforts . Our proposed chit-   chat to task - oriented transition approach can cap-   ture the suitable timing when the user shows the   implicit intents and generate the diverse and nat-   ural transition turn to trigger the task - oriented ut-   terances . Our human evaluation shows that the   automatically generated dialogues have a reason-   able quality with natural conversation ﬂows from   a business point of view . The released dataset and   framework empowers research community to easily   obtain large - scale target dialogues and the human   annotated scores can be utilized for related work .   This paper has a great potential of guiding future   research directions and beneﬁting the community   of both research and industry .   Acknowledgements   We thank reviewers for their insightful comments .   This work was ﬁnancially supported from Medi-   aTek Research , Amazon AWS Machine Learning   Research Awards , and the Young Scholar Fellow-   ship Program by Ministry of Science and Technol-   ogy ( MOST ) in Taiwan , under Grant 111 - 2628 - E-   002 - 016.6151References6152   A Questions for Intent Detection6153B Crowdsourcing Guideline   B.1 Task 1 : Salesperson - Customer   Conversation   In order to improve the skills to sell more prod-   ucts , a beginner salesperson is learning dialogue   strategies by reading prior conversations between   customers and other salespeople . This beginner   salesperson needs your help to determine if a sales-   person used a good dialogue strategy to conduct an   effective and strategic sales conversion .   In more detail , you will be presented with one   conversation history between a salesperson and   a customer . The salesperson may recommend a   movie , a song , attractions and so on for the cus-   tomer . Instead of recommending a product or ser-   vice to the customer directly , the salesperson wants   to make the recommendation more gradually and   naturally by starting the conversation with chit-   chat .   In this task , you need to rate the conversation   from the following 3 aspects :   • How relevant is the recommended product or   service to the conversation context ?   •How aggressive is the salesperson ’s commu-   nication strategy ?   •Do you think the sales conversation is overall   a good example of making sales recommenda-   tions ?   Questions   • How relevant is the recommended product or   service to the conversation context ?   – 1 : Not at all ( it is impossible for me to   ﬁnd the relevance between the recom-   mended item and the context )   – 2 : Less than neutral ( it is a bit hard for   me to ﬁnd the relevance between the rec-   ommended item and the context )   – 3 : Neutral ( With some effort , I can ﬁnd   a reasonable relevance between the rec-   ommended item and the context )   – 4 : Relevant ( I can easily ﬁnd that the   recommend item has obvious relevance   with the context , even though the recom-   mended item is not perfectly matching   the context )   – 5 : Very Relevant ( the recommended item   is perfectly matching the context)•How aggressive is the salesperson ’s commu-   nication ?   – 1 : Not aggressive at all ( the conversation   ﬂows very naturally and smoothly from   chit - chat to making recommendations ;   If I was the customer , I feel very com-   fortable when the salesperson is making   recommendations )   – 2 : Less than neutral ( The ﬂow of the con-   versation is generally natural and smooth ,   although there are few imperfections )   – 3 : Neutral ( The salesperson starts to rec-   ommend an item ; It is ok to me )   – 4 : Aggressive ( The salesperson suddenly   starts to recommend an item ; this makes   me a bit uncomfortable )   – 5 : Very aggressive ( The salesperson sud-   denly starts to recommend an item ; this   makes me very uncomfortable )   •Is the sales conversation overall a good exam-   ple to the beginner salesperson ?   – 1 : Not at all ( This example is really very   bad ; the beginner salesperson should not   spend time on learning this example )   – 2 : Less than neutral ( This example is   not good ; it would not be a pity if the   beginner salesperson skips it )   – 3 : Neutral ( This is not a bad example ;   the beginner salesperson may learn some   useful dialogue skills from it , but not   very much )   – 4 : Good ( This is a good example of mak-   ing recommendations ; the imperfections   can be ignored ; the beginner salesperson   should keep this example in his mind )   – 5 : Very good ( This is a perfect example   of making recommendations ; the begin-   ner salesperson should keep it deeply in   his mind )   B.2 Task 2 : Chit - Chat to Task - Oriented   Transition   In order to improve the skills to sell more prod-   ucts , a beginner salesperson is learning dialogue   strategies by reading prior conversations between   customers and other salespeople . This beginner   salesperson needs your help to determine if a sales-   person used a good dialogue strategy to conduct an   effective and strategic sales conversion.6154You will be presented with a conversation be-   tween a salesperson and a customer . The salesper-   son may recommend a movie , a song , attractions   and so on for the customer . Instead of recommend-   ing a product or service to the customer directly ,   the salesperson wants to make the recommendation   more gradually and naturally by starting the conver-   sation with chit - chat . Once the salesperson thinks   it is the right time , he will say something ( named   transition in this task ) to change the conversation   from chit - chat to recommendation - making .   In this task , you will need to rate the transition   from the following 4 aspects :   • Is it the right time to make the transition ?   •Is the transition relevant to the conversation   context ?   • Is the transition aggressive ?   • Is the transition overall good ?   Questions   • Is it the right time to make the transition ?   – 1 : Very bad time ( This is deﬁnitely not   the right time to do it . It is highly likely   that the customer will ﬁnd you very an-   noying )   – 2 : Bad time ( This is not a good time to   make the transition . It may cause nega-   tive customer feelings )   – 3 : Neutral ( I do n’t think making the tran-   sition at the time is good , but it is ok to   me to continue the conversation if I was   the customer )   – 4 : Good time ( it is a good time to make   the transition , but maybe it will be per-   fect if the transition is made earlier or   later )   – 5 : Very good time ( it is a perfect time to   make the transition )   •Is the transition relevant to the conversation   context ?   – 1 : Not at all ( it is impossible for me to   ﬁnd the relevance between the transition   and the context )   – 2 : Less than neutral ( it is a bit hard for   me to ﬁnd the relevance between the tran-   sition and the context)–3 : Neutral ( With some effort , I can ﬁnd   a reasonable relevance between the tran-   sition and the context )   – 4 : Relevant ( I can easily ﬁnd that the   transition has obvious relevance with the   context , even though the transition is not   perfectly matching the context )   – 5 : Very Relevant ( the transition is per-   fectly matching the context ; it is hard for   me to ﬁnd a better transition )   • Is the transition aggressive ?   – 1 : Not aggressive at all ( the conversation   ﬂows very naturally and smoothly from   chit - chat to making the transition ; If I   was the customer , I feel very comfortable   when the salesperson is doing it )   – 2 : Less than neutral ( The ﬂow of the con-   versation is generally natural and smooth ,   although there are few imperfections )   – 3 : Neutral ( The salesperson starts to   make the transition ; It is ok to me )   – 4 : Aggressive ( The salesperson suddenly   starts to make the transition ; this makes   me a bit uncomfortable )   – 5 : Very aggressive ( The salesperson sud-   denly starts to make the transition ; this   makes me very uncomfortable )   • Is the transition overall good ?   – 1 : Not at all ( This transition is really very   bad ; the beginner should not spend time   on leaning this transition )   – 2 : Less than neutral ( This transition is   not good ; It would not be a pity if the   beginner salesperson skips this example )   – 3 : Neutral ( This is not a bad transition ;   the beginner salesperson may learn some   useful dialogue skills from it , but not   very much )   – 4 : Good ( This is a good example of mak-   ing a transition ; the imperfections can be   ignored ; the beginner salesperson should   keep this example in his mind )   – 5 : Very good ( This is a perfect exam-   ple of making a transition ; the beginner   salesperson should keep it deeply in his   mind )   •Which transition of the following do you think   is the best?6155 – transition 1   – transition 2   – transition 3   – transition 4   B.3 Task 3 : Customer ’s Implicit Intent   In order to improve skills to sell more products ,   some beginner salespersons are practicing dialogue   strategies by reading prior conversations between   customers and other salespeople . When reading a   conversation , they will try to guess what the cus-   tomer is thinking or what the customer might be   most likely interested in . These beginner salesper-   sons need your opinions about the reasonability of   their answers .   In this task , you will be presented with a con-   versation snippet between a salesperson and a cus-   tomer . These beginners provided their guesses right   after a customer ’s utterance . There are three sets of   intent detected by different salespersons . You will   need to rank them in terms of the intent relevance   ( implicit intent ) with the conversation . If they have   the exactly same intent , you can give them the same   rank . Otherwise , please decide which is the better   one . 1 for the best intents . 3 for the worst intents .   In addition , " None " means there is n’t any intent   detected by the salespersons .   Example   All possible intents might exist in the conversa-   tion .   Questions   •Please select the rank for the [ FindMovies ,   LookupMusic ] .   – 1–2   – 3   • Please select the rank for the [ PlaySong ] .   – 1   – 2   – 3   •Please select the rank for the [ LookupMusic ] .   – 1   – 2   – 3   •Please choose your own answers given this   conversation .   – LookupSong   – PlaySong   – LookupMusic   – FindMovies   – GetTimesForMovie   – FindAttractions   – None6156C Generated Dialogue Samples   Task - oriented Simulators   Sales : Oh , I ’m sorry to hear that . Do you have any other family members that you are close   to ?   User : Yes , I have two brothers and two sisters . We are all very close . How about you ?   Sales : I do n’t have any siblings , but I have a lot of cousins that I ’m very close to .   User : That ’s great . I ’m glad you have a good relationship with your cousins . What do you   like to do for fun ?   Sales : I like to play video games and watch movies . What about you , what do you enjoy   doing ?   User : I like playing video games as well . I also like to go to the movies . I love going to the   theater . - FindMovies   Sales : Sure , what kind of movies do you like to watch ? Can you see [ movie_name ] ? -   [ Transition ]   User : I would love to see Captain Marvel . I ’d like to watch it at Century at Tanforan .   Sales : I found [ count ] movie you might like . How about [ movie_name ] ?   User : Yeah , Hotel Mumbai sounds good .   Sales : You want to play [ title ] without subtitles , is that right ?   User : Yes , that ’s right .   Sales : Okay , so you want me to play the movie you requested . I ’ll start the movie now .   User : Yes , please do .   Sales : Can you please conﬁrm that you want to play [ title ] without subtitles ?   Merge SGD   User : I like to drive around in my black car and listen to music . What do you like to do ?   Sales : I love going to the beach and swimming . What kind of music do you listen to ?   User : I listen to a lot of rap and hip hop . Do you have a favorite rapper ? - LookupMusic   Sales : I ’m a top notch rapper and I ’m a rock musician . Are you in the mood for the music . -   [ Transition ]   User : I ’m in the mood for some music . Can you ﬁnd songs from the album Camila .   Sales : What about the song [ song_name ] from the album [ album ] by [ artist ] ?   User : I ’m not in the mood for that one , do you have a different song ?   Sales : What about the song [ song_name ] from the album [ album ] by [ artist ] ?   User : What is the genre of the song ?   Sales : Real Friends is a [ genre ] song .   User : Sounds good .   Sales : Do you want to hear the song now ?   User : Yes , I would love to .   Sales : You want to play [ song_name ] on your [ playback_device ] ?   User : No , I would prefer to play it on my kitchen speaker .   Sales : You want to play [ song_name ] on your [ playback_device ] ?   User : Yes , that ’s right .   Sales : The song is now playing .   User : Thank you very much .   Sales : Is there anything else I can help you with ?   User : No , that is all . Thank you for your time .   Sales : Enjoy your music . Have a wonderful day.6157Merge SGD   User : London is a great place to visit , but I would n’t want to live there . Too many people .   Sales : I know what you mean . London is the most populous city in the United Kingdom .   User : It ’s also the most densely populated metropolitan area in the world .   Sales : Yes , it is . It has a population of 8,537,673 .   User : Wow , that ’s a lot of people . Do you live in the city or the suburbs ?   Sales : I live in London , the capital of the UK . It ’s a great city to live in .   User : I ’ve never been there but I ’ve always wanted to go . I ’ve heard it ’s the cultural ,   ﬁnancial , and media capital of Europe .   Sales : Yes , that is true . It is also one of the world ’s most visited cities as well .   User : I would love to go there and see all of the museums and historical sights . -   FindAttractions   Sales : Sure . What city ? What kind of attraction are you looking for ? - [ Transition ]   User : I ’m looking for attractions to visit   Sales : In which city do you want to search for ?   User : I would like attractions in San Francisco   Sales : I found [ count ] attractions , for example [ attraction_name ] , a [ category ]   User : Is it a child - friendly place ? Is entry free ?   Sales : The entry is free and it ’s a good place for kids   User : Very good ! Can you give me any other suggestions ? Any attraction is ﬁne   Sales : I found [ count ] attractions . I suggest [ attraction_name ] , a [ category ]   User : This is ﬁne too   Sales : You need anything else ?   User : Yes , I ’d like to watch a movie there , preferably a 3d show   Sales : There are [ movie_name ] , [ movie_name ] and [ movie_name ] .   User : I ’d like other proposals   Sales : There are [ movie_name ] , [ movie_name ] and [ movie_name ]   User : I like IT two ! What online movies do you propose ?   Sales : What kind of movie do you prefer ?   User : I love Suspense movies   Sales : I found [ count ] movies : do you prefer [ title ] , [ title ] or [ title ] ?   User : I prefer The Art of Self - Defense ! I want to watch it now with English subtitles   Sales : Playing [ title ] with [ subtitle_language ] subtitles : do you conﬁrm ?   User : No , I prefer with French subtitles , thanks !   Sales : Playing [ title ] with [ subtitle_language ] subtitles : do you conﬁrm ?   User : Now it ’s correct , I conﬁrm .   Sales : The movie is starting !   User : Who is the main actor ?   Sales : The mai actor is [ starring ] .   User : Thank you ! It ’s all for now!6158