  Ramit Sawhney , Shivam Agarwal , Vivek Mittal ,   Paolo Rosso , Vikram Nanda , Sudheer ChavaFinancial Services Innovation Lab , Georgia Institute of Technology , University of Illinois at Urbana - Champaign , Universitat Politècnica de València , University of Texas at Dallas   shivama2@illinois.edu , { rsawhney31,schava6}@gatech.edu   Abstract   The rapid spread of information over social   media inﬂuences quantitative trading and in-   vestments . The growing popularity of spec-   ulative trading of highly volatile assets such   as cryptocurrencies and meme stocks presents   a fresh challenge in the ﬁnancial realm . In-   vestigating such " bubbles " - periods of sud-   den anomalous behavior of markets are critical   in better understanding investor behavior and   market dynamics . However , high volatility   coupled with massive volumes of chaotic so-   cial media texts , especially for underexplored   assets like cryptocoins pose a challenge to   existing methods . Taking the ﬁrst step to-   wards NLP for cryptocoins , we present and   publicly release CryptoBubbles , a novel multi-   span identiﬁcation task for bubble detection ,   and a dataset of more than 400 cryptocoins   from 9 exchanges over ﬁve years spanning   over two million tweets . Further , we develop   a set of sequence - to - sequence hyperbolic mod-   els suited to this multi - span identiﬁcation task   based on the power - law dynamics of cryp-   tocurrencies and user behavior on social media .   We further test the effectiveness of our models   under zero - shot settings on a test set of Reddit   posts pertaining to 29 “ meme stocks ” , which   see an increase in trade volume due to social   media hype . Through quantitative , qualitative ,   and zero - shot analyses on Reddit and Twit-   ter spanning cryptocoins and meme - stocks , we   show the practical applicability of CryptoBub-   bles and hyperbolic models .   1 Introduction   Cryptocurrency ( crypto ) trading presents a new in-   vestment opportunity ( Chuen et al . , 2017 ) for max-   imizing proﬁts . The rising ubiquity of speculative   trading of cryptocurrencies over social media has   lead to sentiment driven “ bubbles ” ( Chohan , 2021 ;   Hu et al . , 2021 ) . Such a bubble is characterized   by rapid escalation of price in a short period ofFigure 1 : We present market moving tweets by inﬂuen-   tial users about DogeCoin . Such tweets induce social   media hype which leads to creation of bubbles .   time typically driven by exuberant investor behav-   ior ( Fry and Cheah , 2016 ) and may be tied with   enormous risks . Analyzing such anomalous behav-   iors can be useful for forecasting speculative risks .   However , it is not trivial to use existing NLP meth-   ods ( Sawhney et al . , 2020a ) for forecasting crypto   bubbles as they are designed for simple assets such   as equities that are 10x less volatile than crypto ( Liu   and Serletis , 2019 ) . Also , crypto behavior is more   strongly tied to user sentiment and social media   usage as opposed to conventional stocks and equi-   ties , rendering both conventional ﬁnancial models   and contemporary ML models weak as they are   not geared towards dealing with large volumes of   unstructured , user - generated text .   Theories ( Chen and Hafner , 2019 ) suggest that   ﬁnancial bubbles are often driven by social media   hype and the intensity of contagion among users .   As shown in Figure 1 , posts from highly inﬂuential   personalities often cause a growing chain reaction   leading to a short squeeze and the creation of a   bubble . However , analyzing such large volumes   of chaotic texts poses several challenges ( Sawh-   ney et al . , 2021 ) . Market moving events , as shown   in Figure 1 are rare ( Zhao et al . , 2010 ) and their   impact on market variables exhibit power - law dis-5531tributions ( Plerou et al . , 2004 ; Malevergne * et al . ,   2005 ) . This power - law dynamics in online streams   indicate the presence of scale free and hierarchical   properties in the time domain ( Feng et al . , 2020 ) .   Existing works ( Hu et al . , 2018 ; Du and Tanaka-   Ishii , 2020 ) that adopt RNN methods to model ﬁ-   nancial text ( typically equities ) do not factor in the   inherent scale - free nature in online streams leading   to distorted representations ( Ganea et al . , 2018a ) .   Advances in hyperbolic learning ( Shimizu et al . ,   2021 ) motivates us to use the hyperbolic space ,   which better represents the scale - free nature of   online text streams . Further , online texts pose a   diverse inﬂuence on cryptoprices based on their   content ( Kraaijeveld and De Smedt , 2020 ; Beck   et al . , 2019 ) , for example , posts from a reliable   source inﬂuences future trends , as opposed to noise   like vague comments as shown in Figure 1 .   Building on these prospects , we present Cryp-   toBubbles , a novel multi - bubble forecasting task   ( § 3 ) , and a dataset comprising tweets , ﬁnancial   data , and speculative bubbles ( § 4 ) along with hy-   perbolic methods to model the intricate power - law   dynamics associated with crypto and online user   behavior pertaining to stock markets .   Our contributions can be summarized as :   •We formulate CryptoBubbles , a novel multi-   span prediction task and publicly release a text   dataset of 400 + crypto from over seven ex-   changes spanning over ﬁve years accompanied   by over 2 million tweets .   •We explore the power - law dynamics that exist   in such user - generated text streams , and propose : MultiBubble Hyperbolic N etwork ( § 5 )   along with other hyperbolic baselines which   leverages the Riemannian manifold to model   the intricate dynamics associated with crypto .   •We curate and release a test set corresponding   to over 25,000 Reddit posts of 29 meme - stocks   that show similar speculative user - driven dynam-   ics ( § 4 ) for evaluating under zero - shot   settings ( § 4.1 ) across asset classes ( Crypto →   Equities ) and social media platforms ( Twitter →   Reddit ) .   •Through ablative ( § 7.1 ) and qualitative experi-   ments ( § 7.5 ) we show the practical applicability   of CryptoBubbles and hyperbolic learning . Weﬁnd that generalizes to cold - start scenar-   ios ( § 7.3 ) and provides qualitative insights .   2 Background and Related Work   Cryptocurrency and Financial Bubbles Cryp-   tocurrencies are recent digital assets that have been   in use since 2008 ( Nakamoto et al . , 2008 ) and   rely on distributed cryptographic protocols , rather   than a centralized authority to operate ( Krafft et al . ,   2018 ) . These assets signiﬁcantly differ from tradi-   tional equities ( Febrero , 2019 ) which have been in   use since the 17century ( Sobel , 2000 ) and have   very distinct risk - return trade - offs ( Chuen et al . ,   2017 ) . Recently , crypto trading gained popularity   ( Stieg , 2021 ) given their low fees ( King , 2013 ) ,   easy access ( Chepurnoy et al . , 2019 ) , and high   proﬁt ( Bunjaku et al . , 2017 ) However , crypto trad-   ing is very challenging since it shows high volatil-   ity ( Aloosh and Ouzan , 2020 ) , power - law bubble   dynamics ( Fry and Cheah , 2016 ) and effect other   markets ( Andrianto and Diputra , 2017 ) .   Financial NLP Conventional forecasting meth-   ods rely on numeric features like historical prices   ( Kohara et al . , 1997 ) , and technical indicators   ( Shynkevich et al . , 2017 ) . These include continu-   ous ( Andersen , 2007 ) , and neural approaches ( Feng   et al . , 2019a ) . Despite their improvements , a limita-   tion is that they do not account for price inﬂuencing   factors from text ( Lee et al . , 2014 ) . Recent meth-   ods are based on the Efﬁcient Market Hypotheses   ( Malkiel , 1989 ) which leverage language from earn-   ings calls ( Qin and Yang , 2019 ) , online news ( Du   and Tanaka - Ishii , 2020 ) and social media ( Tabari   et al . , 2018 ) . However , a limitation is that they   focus on simple assets like equities ( Sawhney et al . ,   2020a ) and formulate forecasting as regression ( Ko-   gan et al . , 2009 ) or ranking ( Sawhney et al . , 2021 )   task . Such simple methods do not scale to highly   stochastic crypto ( Liu and Serletis , 2019 ) that show   power - law dynamics ( Kyriazis et al . , 2020 ) .   Hyperbolic Learning has proved to be effective   in representing power - law dynamics ( Ganea et al . ,   2018b ) , hierarchical relations ( Aldecoa et al . , 2015 )   and scale - free characteristics ( Chami et al . , 2019a ) .   Hyperbolic learning has been applied to various   NLP ( Dhingra et al . , 2018 ) , and computer vision   tasks ( Khrulkov et al . , 2020a ) . However , modeling   crypto texts is complex as crypto prices are driven   by social media hype ( Stevens , 2021 ) and involve   inﬂuential users ( Ante , 2021 ) . The intersection5532   of modeling scale - free ﬁnancial text streams with   hyperbolic learning presents an underexplored yet   promising research avenue .   3 Problem Formulation   LetC={c ... ,c}denote a set of Ncryptos ,   where for each crypto cthere is an associated clos-   ing pricepon dayt . Following ( Phillips and Shi ,   2019 ) , we deﬁne the bubble wfor each crypto c   in the lookahead Tas the period characterized by   rapid price escalation . Formally , the logarithmic   price change ( logp−logp)takes the form ,   where,/epsilon1are martingale difference innovations and   Lgiven byL = Lb . Where , Lmeasures the   shock intensity and bis uniform over a small neg-   ative quantity−/epsilon1to unity . We formulate ﬁnancial   bubble prediction as a multi - span prediction task   since a variable number of bubbles can exist during   a lookahead period T. Our goal is to predict all   such bubble periods win the lookahead T. For-   mally , given a variable number of historic texts   [ d, ... ,d](or other sequences like prices ) for   each crypto cover a lookback of τdays ,   ﬁrst outputs the number of bubbles Bto support   multi - bubble prediction . Followed by identifying   Bnon - overlapping bubble periods.4 Dataset Curation and Processing   Data Mining To create CryptoBubbles dataset ,   we select the top 9 crypto exchanges such as Bi-   nance , Gateio , etc and choose around 50 most   traded cryptos by volume from each exchange and   obtain 456 cryptos in total . For these cryptos we   mine 5 years of daily price data consisting of open-   ing , closing , highest and lowest prices from 1   Mar’16 to 7Apr’21 using CryptoCompare . Next ,   we extract crypto related tweets under Twitter ’s of-   ﬁcial license . Following ( Xu and Cohen , 2018a ) ,   we extract crypto - speciﬁc tweets by querying regex   ticker symbols , for instance , “ $ DOGE\b ” for Do-   geCoin . We mine tweets for the same date range   as the price data and obtain 2.4 million tweets . We   detail the yearly number of tweets from each ex-   change in Figure 2 and observe that the number of   tweets increases every year , indicating the growing   popularity of speculative trading via social media .   Bubble Creation To identify bubbles , we use   the PSY model ( Phillips et al . , 2015b ) which is   a widely used bubble detection method in ﬁnan-   cial time - series analysis ( Cheung et al . , 2015 ; Har-   vey et al . , 2016 ) . Following ( Corbet et al . , 2018 )   we feed the closing prices of each asset cto the   PSY model , which outputs date spans for each   bubble . To further review the ground - truth annota-   tions produced by the PSY model , all annotations   were reviewed by ﬁve experienced ﬁnancial ana-   lysts achieving a Cohen ’s κof 0.93 . We ﬁnd that   the reviewers agree with the annotations for 90 %   of the bubbles . During reviewer disagreement ( 5 %   bubbles ) , we took the majority of all annotators .   For 5 % of the bubbles all reviewers agreed that the   annotations were incorrect , during which we con-   sidered the annotations proposed by the analysts.5533   We provide overall dataset and bubble statistics in   Table 1 and Figure 3 , respectively .   Sample Generation To generate data samples ,   we use a sliding window of length τand consider   all texts posted within this window for making pre-   dictions over the next Tdays . Next , we temporally   split all the data samples into train , validation , and   test as shown in Table 2 . We note that our data   is heavily skewed ; our evaluation set contains new   cryptos and spans the COVID-19 period suggesting   that CryptoBubbles is challenging .   4.1 Zero Shot Reddit Data   We curate zero - shot Reddit data to test our model ’s   ability to generalize across different asset classes   and social media platforms . We analyze 12   meme cryptos and 17 meme equities ( for instance ,   GameStop , and DOGE ) selected based on social   media activity over 15 months from 15Jan’20 to   3April’21 . We mine Reddit posts and comments   from top trading subreddits such as r / wallstreetbets   using the PushshiftAPI.We scrape daily price data   using Yahoo Finance for equities and CoinGecko   for crypto and use the PSY model ( Phillips et al . ,   2015b ) to identify bubbles . We follow the same pro-   cess used for Twitter and summarize the statistics   in Table 3 . We note that zero - shot data establishes   a challenging environment for evaluating Crypto-   Bubbles since it contains varied post lengths and   unseen assets .   5 Methodology :   5.1 Preliminaries on the Hyperbolic Space   We implement on the Poincaré ball model ,   deﬁned as ( B , g ) , where the manifold B={x∈   R:||x||<1 } , with the Riemannian metric g=   λg , where the conformal factor λ=   andg = diag[1, .. ,1]is the Euclidean metric ten-   sor . We denote the tangent space centered at point   xasTB . Following ( Ungar , 2001 ) , we generalizeEuclidean operations to the hyperbolic space using   the Möbius operations .   Möbius Addition ⊕for a pair of points x , y∈B ,   x⊕y= ( 1 + 2 / angbracketleftx , y / angbracketright+||y||)x+(1−||x||)y   1 + 2 / angbracketleftx , y / angbracketright+||x||||y||(2 )   where,/angbracketleft . ,./angbracketrightdenotes the inner product and ||·||   denotes the norm . To perform operations in the   hyperbolic space , we deﬁne the exponential and   logarithmic map to project Euclidean vectors to the   hyperbolic space , and vice versa .   Exponential Mapping maps a tangent vector   v∈ TBto a point exp(v)in the hyperbolic   space ,   exp(v ) = x⊕/parenleftbigg   tanh / parenleftbigg||v||   1−||x||/parenrightbiggv   ||v||/parenrightbigg   ( 3 )   Logarithmic Mapping maps a point y∈B to a   point log(y)on the tangent space at x ,   Möbius Multiplication ⊗multiplies features   x∈ Bwith matrix W∈R , deﬁned as ,   W⊗x = exp(Wlog(x ) ) ( 5 )   We present an overview of in Figure 4 . We   ﬁrst explain temporal feature ( price or text ) extrac-   tion using hyperbolic GRU and the temporal atten-   tion ( § 5.2 ) , followed by the decoder architecture to   predict multiple bubble spans ( § 5.3 ) .   5.2 Hyperbolic Temporal Encoder   Temporal dependencies in crypto data show power-   law dynamics and scale - free nature ( Zhang et al . ,   2018 ; Gabaix et al . , 2003 ) . As shown in Figure   4 to capture the hierarchical and temporal depen-   dencies in temporal crypto data ( online texts or as-   set prices ) , we implement a Gated Recurrent Unit   ( GRU ) in the hyperbolic space ( Ganea et al . , 2018a )   which better models the scale - free dynamics of on-   line streams ( Chami et al . , 2019b ) .   As shown in Figure 4 , the input to can be   any temporal sequence [ d, ... ,d]such as prices   or texts . We use a data encoder to encode each   itemdas featuresq . Speciﬁcally , we use Bidirec-   tional Encoder Representations from Transformers   ( BERT ) ( Devlin et al . , 2019 ) for encoding texts as   q = BERT ( d ) . While we feed raw price vectors5534   comprising of a cryptos ’s closing price p , highest   pricepand lowest price pfor daytfor encoding   historic prices as q= [ p , p , p ] . For encoding   both prices and texts together we concatenate the   price and text features . To apply the hyperbolic op-   erations , we ﬁrst map these Euclidean features q   to hyperbolic features x∈Bfor each crypto c   via the exponential map , given by , x = exp(q ) .   We deﬁne the hyperbolic GRU on features xas ,   where , Ψdenotes hyerbolic non - linearity ( Ganea   et al . , 2018a ) and W , U , b are learnable weights .   We denote the Hyperbolic GRU as HGRU ( · )   which takes temporal crypto features X=   { q, ... ,q}as input and outputs features K=   { h, ... ,h } , which is the concatenation of all   hidden states hof cryptoc , given by ,   K = HGRU ( exp(X ) ) ( 6 )   All texts ( or prices ) released in the lookback τ   may not be equally informative and have diverse   inﬂuence over a crypto ’s trend ( Kraaijeveld and De   Smedt , 2020 ) . We use a temporal attention mech-   anism ( Luong et al . , 2015 ) to emphasize streams   likely to have a substantial inﬂuence on the bubble .   The attention mechanism learns attention weights   { γ}to adaptively aggregate hidden states ofHGRU into a crypto information vector u ,   u=/summationdisplayγlog(h ) ( 7 )   γ = Softmax(log(h)(Wlog(K ) ) ) ( 8)   where , Ware learnable weights .   5.3 Multi - Span Extraction and Optimization   Span Prediction To extract the bubble spans   in the lookahead T , we take inspiration from   ( Sutskever et al . , 2014 ) and use a GRU based de-   coding network . We use the outputs of the encoder   ufor each crypto cas the initial state of the GRU .   For each day t∈[1, ... ,T ] , we predict the prob-   ability of day tbeing a starting or an ending day   denoted bypandprespectively , given by ,   p = Sigmoid ( WGRU(u ) ) ( 9 )   p = Sigmoid ( WGRU(u ) ) ( 10 )   where W , Ware learnable weights .   Multi - Span Extraction To identify multiple   bubble spans , we ﬁrst predict the number of bub-   blesBfor each cryptocoin cin the lookahead T   and model it as a classiﬁcation task , given by ,   B = argmax ( Softmax ( MLP(u ) ) ) ( 11 )   As shown in Figure 4 , we extract Bnon-   overlapping bubbles for each coin cusing the non-   maximum suppression ( NMS ) algorithm ( Rosen-   feld and Thurston , 1971 ) . For the jbubble our   model predicts a starting index sand an ending in-   dexe , wheres < e≤T , j∈[1, ... ,B ] . We ﬁrst   extract top - K bubble spans Sbased on the bubble5535p = 1.9e-3p = 0.9053   scores , calculated as p×pfor thejbubble   starting at index sand ending at index e. Next ,   we initialize an empty set Sand add the bubble   ( s , e)that posses the maximum bubble score to   the set S , and remove it from the set S. We also   delete any remaining bubble spans ( s , e)having   an overlap with bubble ( s , e ) . This process is   repeated for all the remaining spans in S , until Sis   empty or we get Bbubble spans in the set S.   Network Optimization We optimize us-   ing a combination of losses corresponding to the   three tasks ; 1 ) Bubble start date prediction , 2 ) Bub-   ble end date prediction and 3 ) Number of bubble   prediction . We optimize using binary cross   entropy loss over both bubble start date and end   date prediction . For optimizing over the number   of bubbles , we use the Focal loss ( Lin et al . , 2017 ) .   The net loss is the sum of the three losses .   6 Experimental Setup   Preprocessing We pre - process English tweets   using NLTK ( Twitter mode ) , for treatment of URLs ,   identiﬁers ( @ ) and hashtags ( # ) . We adopt the Bert-   Tokenizer for tokenization and use the pre - trained   BERT - base - cased model for text embeddings . We   align days by dropping samples that lack tweets for   a consecutive 5 - day lookback window .   Training Setup We adopt grid search to ﬁnd opti-   mal hyperparameters based on the validation MCC   for all methods . For NMS , we use an overlapping   threshold of 2 units . We use default α= 2,γ= 5   for the focal loss and learning rate ∈(1e,1e )   to train the models using the Adam optimizer .   Evaluation Metrics We evaluate all methods   using F1 - score , Mathews Correlation Coefﬁcient   ( MCC ) and Exact Match ( EM ) ( We provide metricequations in Appendix ) . On the bubble span level ,   we use F1 and MCC , which measure the overlap   between the predicted and the true bubble spans .   While EM measures the percentage of overall pre-   dicted bubbles that exactly match the true bubble   spans . We also evaluate on the “ number of bubble ”   task via F1 - Score and Accuracy ( Acc ) .   6.1 Baseline Methods   We use BERT for text encoding in all models . Each   baseline forecasts prices over lookahead Tand uses   the PSY model to detect bubbles .   •ARIMA Auto - regressive moving average based   model that uses past prices from 100 days as   input for forecasting ( Yenido ˘gan et al . , 2018 ) .   •W - LSTM A LSTM model with autoencoders   that encode noise - free data obtained via wavelet   transform of historic prices ( Bao et al . , 2017 ) .   •A - LSTM Adversarially trained LSTM on price   inputs for forecasting ( Feng et al . , 2019b ) .   •Chaotic A Hierarchical GRU model applied on   texts within and accross days ( Hu et al . , 2018 ) .   •MAN - SF(T ) Hierarchical attention on texts   within and across days ( Sawhney et al . , 2020b ) .   •CH - RNN An RNN coupled with cross - modal   attention on price and texts ( Wu et al . , 2018 ) .   •SN - HFA : StockNet - HedgeFundAnalyst , a   variational autoencoder with attention on texts   and prices ( Xu and Cohen , 2018b ) .   7 Results and Analysis   7.1 Ablation Study   Through Figure 5 we observe that augmenting   price - based with ﬁnancial texts leads to sig-5536   niﬁcant ( p<0.01 ) improvements , suggesting the   importance of leveraging textual sources to forecast   the formation of speculative bubbles . This observa-   tion ties up with ( Sawhney et al . , 2021 ) who show   that online texts often indicate market surprises that   may not be well captured by prices alone . Noting   insigniﬁcant ( p > 0.01 ) improvements on using   both price and text information , we further probe performance beneﬁts from each of its com-   ponents in Table 4 with only textual inputs . We   note the biggest improvements on replacing the   Euclidean encoders with their hyperbolic variants ,   suggesting that the inherent power - law dynamics   and scale - free nature of online texts and ﬁnancial   bubbles are better represented in the hyperbolic   space ( Ganea et al . , 2018b ) . Next , on adding tem-   poral attention , we note improvements as   can better distinguish noise inducing text from rel-   evant market signals , minimizing false evaluations   and overreactions ( De Long et al . , 1990 ) . The tem-   poral attention mechanism can likely diminish the   impact of such noise ( rumors , vague comments )   and better capture the diverse inﬂuence of texts .   7.2 Performance Comparison   We compare the performance of with base-   lines in Table 5 . We observe that through   hyperbolic learning signiﬁcantly outperforms ( p <   0.01 ) all baselines . This observation validates our   premise of formulating CryptoBubbles as an extrac-   tive multi - span task and suggests its practical ap-   plicability in predicting speculative ﬁnancial risks .   Further , we note that methods that use crypto af-   fecting information from online texts ( , SN-   HFA ) generate better performance than approaches   that only use price data ( A - LSTM , W - LSTM ) .   These improvements re - validate the effectiveness   of using online texts to encode investor sentiment   and market information . Next , we note that   requires less historical data ( τ= 5 ) compared to   conventional methods ( ARIMA , τ= 100 ) , while   achieving better performance , suggesting   applicability in low data scenarios .   7.3 Zero - shot Learning   To evaluate applicability to unseen asset   classes and social media linguistic styles we test it   on unseen Reddit meme - stock data ( § 4 ) under zero-   shot settings and summarise the results in Table 6 .   We observe that can generalize over the true   market sentiment to an extent and transfer knowl-   edge across the two social media by being invariant   to post styles , lengths , and social media structure .   Further , these observations suggest that can   be leveraged for cold start scenarios ( completely   new assets ) , which is quite frequent for cryptocur-   rencies ( Gavin and Richard , 2019 ) . We speculate ’s transferability to hyperbolic learning due   to its ability to accurately reﬂect complex scale - free   relations between social media texts . This observa-   tion ties up with ( Khrulkov et al . , 2020b ) who show   that hyperbolic learning is useful under zero - shot   settings . These observations collectively demon-   strate ’s ability to generalize across social   media and asset classes , including meme stocks   such as GameStop , which purely see bubbles due   to social media hype ( Chohan , 2021 ) .   7.4 Sensitivity to Lookback and Lookahead   We study the impact of historical context on ’s performance in Figure 7 by varying the   availability of historic information . We observe   lower performance on using shorter lookback pe-   riods , indicating inadequacy to capture the market   inﬂuencing signals , likely as public information re-   quires time to absorb into price ﬂuctuations ( Luss   and D’Aspremont , 2015 ) . As we increase the look-5537   back , we ﬁnd that larger periods allow the inclusion   of stale information from older days having a rel-   atively lower inﬂuence on prices ( Bernhardt and   Miao , 2004 ) that may deteriorate the model perfor-   mance . However , our temporal attention mecha-   nism , to an extent , learns to ﬁlter our salient texts ,   which induce bubbles in the market . Further , we   analyze ’s sensitivity to the number of looka-   head daysTin Figure 7 . We observe that our model   is robust to different lookahead periods , suggesting ’s generalizability for predicting speculative   bubbles over different risk taking appetites .   7.5 Qualitative Analysis   We conduct an extended study to elucidate ’s   explainable predictions and practical applicability .   As shown in Figure 6 , we analyze the recent posts   corresponding to LiteCoin tweets and Gamestop   zero - shot Reddit posts .   Practical applicability of CryptoBubbles and We ﬁrst calculate temporal attention   scores across tweets and observe that is able   to attend to more inﬂuential tweets to an extent   for both meme cryptocurrencies and stocks under   zero - shot settings providing valuable pieces of in-   formation to better judge speculative risks ( Kumar ,   2009 ) . For both asset classes , we observe an overall   positive market sentiment and brief epidemic - like   social media activity , leading to increased trade vol-   ume activity , causing the creation of multiple risky   bubbles ( Phillips and Gorse , 2018 ; Froot and Obst-5538feld , 1989 ) . Such epidemic like social media activ-   ity and bubble creation exhibit scale - free dynamics   since their impact decays as a powerlaw distribu-   tion over time ( Phillips and Gorse , 2017 ) .   outperforms its Euclidean variant as it is better able   to represent the scale - free dynamics via hyperbolic   learning ( Chen and Hafner , 2019 ) . Furthermore ,   we observe multiple cryptocurrency mentions in   a single social media post suggesting that bubble   explosivity in one cryptocoin may induce bubbles   in another crypto ( Agosto and Cafferata , 2020 ) .   These observations demonstrate the practical appli-   cability of CryptoBubbles quantitative trading as it   can scale to forecast multiple risk bubbles .   Contextualizing impact of social media hype   and meme stocks As shown in Figure 6 , we note   that for meme - stocks like GameStop ( GME ) , Red-   dit posts consistently display a social media hype   growing like a chain reaction consecutively creat-   ing a bubble ( Angel , 2021 ) . The price value of   such meme stocks follows sentiment - driven pric-   ing where more media trafﬁc , more positive tones ,   more argument leads to higher returns in a short   squeeze ( Chohan , 2021 ; Hu et al . , 2021 ) . We ob-   serve that via hyperbolic learning is able   to capture the social media hype of meme - stocks   where the intensity of the psychological contagion   among retail investors on social media drive asset   price ﬂuctuations ( Semenova and Winkler , 2021 ) .   8 Conclusion   Building on the popularity of speculative social   media trading , we present CryptoBubbles , a chal-   lenging multi - span crypto bubble forecasting task ,   and dataset . We explore the power - law dynam-   ics of social media hype and propose which   learns from the power - law dynamics via hyperbolic   learning . We curate a Reddit test set to evaluate   our models under zero - shot and cold - start settings .   Through extensive analysis , we show the practical   applicability of CryptoBubbles and publicly release   CryptoBubbles and our hyperbolic models .   Acknowledgements   The research work of Paolo Rosso was partially   funded by the Generalitat Valenciana under Deep-   Pattern ( PROMETEO/2019/121 ) . We would like   to thank the Financial Services Innovation Lab at   Georgia Institute of Technology for their generous   support.9 Ethical Considerations   While data is essential in making models like effective , we must work within the purview   of acceptable privacy practices to avoid coercion   and intrusive treatment . To that end , we utilize pub-   licly available Twitter and Reddit data in a purely   observational and non - intrusive manner . Although   informed consent of each user was not sought as   it may be deemed coercive , We follow all ethical   regulations set by Twitter and Reddit .   There is an ethical imperative implicit in this   growing inﬂuence of automation in market behav-   ior , and it is worthy of serious study ( Hurlburt et al . ,   2009 ; Cooper et al . , 2020 ) . Since ﬁnancial markets   are transparent ( Bloomﬁeld and O’Hara , 1999 ) , and   heavily regulated ( Edwards , 1996 ) , we discuss the   ethical considerations pertaining to our work . Fol-   lowing ( Cooper et al . , 2016 ) , we emphasize on   three ethical criteria for automated trading systems   and discuss ’s design with respect to these   criteria .   Prudent System A prudent system " demands ad-   herence to processes that reliably produce strate-   gies with desirable characteristics such as min-   imizing risk , and generating revenue in excess   of its costs over a period acceptable to its in-   vestors " ( Longstreth , 1986 ) . is directly opti-   mized towards high risk bubble forecasting .   Blocking Price Discovery A trading system   should not block price discovery and not inter-   fere with the ability of other market participants to   add to their own information ( Angel and McCabe ,   2013 ) . For example , placing an extremely large   volume of orders to block competitor ’s messages   ( Quote Stufﬁng ) or intentionally trading with itself   to create the illusion of market activity ( Wash Trad-   ing ) . does not block price discovery in any   form .   Circumventing Price Discovery A trading sys-   tem should not hide information , such as by partici-   pating in dark pools or placing hidden orders ( Zhu ,   2014 ) . We evaluate only on public data in   regulated markets .   Despite these considerations , it is possible for , just as any other automated trading system ,   to be exploited to hinder market fairness . We fol-   low broad ethical guidelines to design and   encourage readers to follow both regulatory and   ethical considerations pertaining to the market.5539References554055415542   A Evaluation Metrics   A.1 MCC   Considering imbalance in our dataset we use MCC   to to evaluate all our models as it takes into accounttrue and false positives and negatives and is gener-   ally regarded as a balanced measure . The MCC is   in essence a correlation coefﬁcient value between   -1 and +1 . A coefﬁcient of +1 represents a perfect   prediction , 0 an average random prediction and -1   an inverse prediction . Formally , given a confusion   matrix / parenleftbiggtp fn   fp tn / parenrightbigg   MCC is deﬁned as ,   A.2 F1 score   F1 score is the harmonic mean between precision   and recall . The F1 score is deﬁned as ,   A.3 Exact Match   EM measures the percentage of overall predicted   bubbles that exactly match the true bubble spans .   B Experimental settings   We implement using the Pytorch framework .   The Hyperbolic module of is based on the   implementation ) . Our has a total of 858   and 44,520 parameters with price and text as input   respectively . We utilize the grid search to ﬁnd all   optimal hyperparameters based on the validation   MCC scores for all models . As an optimiser we   use Adam with β= 0.9andβ= 0.999and an   L2 weight decay of 1e−5 . We use early stopping   based on the Accuracy score over the validation   set .   C Dataset Curation And Preprocessing   To create CryptoBubbles dataset , we select top 9   cryptocurrency exchanges and choose around 50   most traded cryptocoins by volume from each ex-   change and obtain 456 cryptos in total as shown   in Table 7 . For these cryptos we mine 5 years   of daily price data consisting of opening , closing ,   highest and lowest prices from 1Mar’16 to 7   Apr’21 using CryptoCompare . Next , we extract5543cryptocurrency related tweets under Twitter ’s of-   ﬁcial license . Following ( Xu and Cohen , 2018a ) ,   we extract crypto - speciﬁc tweets by querying regex   ticker symbols , for instance , “ $ DOGE\b ” for Do-   geCoin . We mine tweets for the same date range   as the price data and obtain 2.4 million tweets . We   observe that the number of tweets increases every   year , suggesting the popularity of speculative trad-   ing using social media .   To identify bubbles , we use the PSY model   ( Phillips et al . , 2015b ) which is a widely used exu-   berance detection method in ﬁnancial time - series   analysis ( Cheung et al . , 2015 ; Harvey et al . , 2016 ) .   Following ( Corbet et al . , 2018 ) we feed the closing   prices of each cryptocurrency to the PSY model   which outputs date spans for each bubble having   labels 1 or 0 denoting whether the day is included   in the bubble or not . We rank all of our cryptos   by the trade volume and delete some of the lower   ranked cryptos having no bubble . After this step   we obtain with a set of 404 cryptos .   To generate a data sample belonging to a crypto   c , we ﬁrst pick Tlookback dates and τlookahead   dates . Now , for each lookback day we randomly   choose 15 tweets and chronogically append the   tweets . For the corresponding lookahead days we   pick the labels generated using the PSY model .   We repeat this process with a stride of 3between   the starting lookback dates of previous and next   sample . The start ( or end ) indexes of the bubbles   are the index where the bubble started ( ended ) .   We curate zero - shot Reddit data to test our   model ’s ability to generalize across different asset   classes and social media platforms . We analyze 12   meme crypto and 17 meme equities ( For instance ,   GameStop , and DOGE ) selected based on social   media activity over 15 months from 15Jan’20 to   3April’21 as shown in Table 8 . We mine Reddit   posts and comments from top trading subreddits   such as r / wallstreetbets using the PushshiftAPI .   We scrape daily price data using Yahoo Finance   for equities and CoinGecko for cryptos and use   the PSY model ( Phillips et al . , 2015a ) to identify   bubbles . We follow the same sample generation   process that we use for Twitter data . We note that   zero - shot data establishes a challenging environ-   ment for evaluating CryptoBubbles since it con-   tains varied post lengths and unseen asset classes . D Data Annotation by Financial Analysts   To further review the ground - truth annotations pro-   duced by the PSY model , all annotations were   reviewed by ﬁve experienced ﬁnancial analysts   achieving a Cohen ’s κof 0.93 . We recruited these   reviewers through an online form , paid them for   their work and no ethical considerations were re-   quired since we use public ﬁnancial data . We ﬁnd   that the reviewers agree with the annotations for   90 % of the bubbles . During reviewer disagreement   ( 5 % bubbles ) , we took the majority of all annota-   tors . For 5 % of the bubbles all reviewers agreed   that the annotations were incorrect , during which   we considered the annotations proposed by the an-   alysts .   E Limitations   Time - series forecasting is a fundamental frontier in   deep learning . Hyperbolic learning and RNNs are   ubiquitous frameworks that can encode temporal   relationships between entities . By advancing exist-   ing RNN approaches and providing ﬂexibility for   RNNs to capture different intrinsic features from   hyperbolic spaces , can be used to represent   a wide range of complex streams of data for vari-   ous applications such as social inﬂuence prediction ,   healthcare and ﬁnancial applications . One poten-   tial issue of , like many other RNN based   models , is that it provides limited interpretability   to its outputs . In the future , we will look into this   to enhance the explainability of new time - series   forecasting architectures , making such RNN ar-   chitectures applicable in more critical applications   such as medical domains.55445545