  Ella RabinovichBoaz CarmeliIBM ResearchTechnion – Israel Institute of Technology   ella.rabinovich1@ibm.com boazc@il.ibm.com   Abstract   Prominent questions about the role of sensory   vs. linguistic input in the way we acquire and   use language have been extensively studied in   the psycholinguistic literature . However , the   relative effect of various factors in a person ’s   overall experience on their linguistic system   remains unclear . We study this question by   making a step forward towards a better under-   standing of the conceptual perception of col-   ors by color - blind individuals , as reﬂected in   their spontaneous linguistic productions . Us-   ing a novel and carefully curated dataset , we   show that red - green color - blind speakers use   the " red " and " green " color terms in less pre-   dictable contexts , and in linguistic environ-   ments evoking mental image to a lower extent ,   when compared to their normal - sighted coun-   terparts . These ﬁndings shed some new and   interesting light on the role of sensory experi-   ence on our linguistic system .   1 Introduction   Colors play an exceptionally prominent role in our   lives . Simple and vivid , and yet so difﬁcult to   describe or reduce to linguistic terms , our experi-   ence of color has long raised intriguing questions   concerning grounded color semantics – quantify-   ing the associations between words and perceptual   representations – to philosophers , scientists , and   psycholinguists ( Chuang et al . , 2008 ; Heer and   Stone , 2012 ) . McMahan and Stone ( 2015 ) have   shown that the subjective quality of color experi-   ence varies between individuals . A body of work in   color semantics have indicated that color lexicaliza-   tion and usage patterns can be signiﬁcantly affected   by extra - linguistic factors , such as culture , physi-   cal environment ( Athanasopoulos , 2011 ; Josserand   et al . , 2021 ) , and the native language of a speaker   ( Sarantakis , 2014 ; Matusevych et al . , 2018 ) .   How do colors appear to color - blind individu-   als ? Does the imperfect perceptual experience ofred and green in people with red - green visual de-   ﬁciency ( deuteranopia ) shape their color - related   linguistic production ? Embodied cognition theory   poses that the entirety of our sensory experience –   activities that help us develop a better understand-   ing of word semantics by using our ﬁve senses –   shapes our conceptual knowledge ( Barsalou et al . ,   2008 ; Foglia and Wilson , 2013 ) . As an example ,   reading the word " cat " is likely to elicit sensory   experiences we have with cats , such as their sound   and how they look . Embodied cognition theory   thus assumes that all our sensory experiences con-   tribute to our conceptual knowledge and processing ,   which , in turn , is reﬂected in our language .   Related Work Prior work on the effect of color-   blindness on language production is relatively   sparse . Landau and Gleitman ( 2009 ) studied the   language of blind children , focusing ( among oth-   ers ) on the achievements of three blind children ’s   in the area of syntax and word learning . The au-   thors found general development patterns similar to   those by their sighted agemates . Representation of   colors in blind and color - blind individuals was stud-   ied in a controlled color - similarity experiment with   37 participants – 15 red - green color - blind , among   others ( Shepard and Cooper , 1992 ) . The partici-   pants were asked to rank the degree of similarity   between colors , when presented with names - only ,   visual colors only , and names+color stimuli . While   signiﬁcant differences in the similarity judgments   were found for the color - only setting , when color-   deﬁcient participants were presented with names   along with the colors , their rankings became closer   to those by normal - sighted people . This suggests   that linguistic exposure plays a considerable role   in shaping our perception of color representation .   Multiple works have studied the language of visu-   ally impaired and blind children at various stages of   language development , suggesting evidence for dif-   ﬁculties in just those areas of language acquisition6673where visual information can provide input about   the world , stimulating hypotheses about pertinent   aspects of the linguistic system ( Andersen et al . ,   1984 ; Pérez - Pereira and Conti - Ramsden , 2013 ) .   The puzzling question on the role of sensory vs.   linguistics input in shaping our color perception   remains therefore sound . In this work , we make a   step forward towards better understanding of the   conceptual perception of the red and green colors   in red - green color - blind individuals , as mirrored in   their spontaneous linguistic production .   We perform a ﬁrst ( to the best of our knowledge )   large - scale computational study on the usage of   the " red " and " green " color terms in ( self - reported )   population with deutan andprotan visual impair-   ment . Using a novel dataset of linguistic produc-   tions by color - blind ( CB ) individuals , we show that   they use the " red " and " green " color terms in less   predictable contexts , and in linguistic environments   evoking mental image to a lower extent , when com-   pared to normal - sighted ( NS ) authors .   The contribution of this study is , therefore ,   twofold : First , we release a large , diverse , and   carefully curated dataset of linguistic productions   by red - green CB authors , accompanied by a cor-   pus of utterances by NS individuals , aligned on   various linguistic properties . Second , we show pre-   liminary evidence for subtle , yet reliably detected ,   divergences in the usage of " red " and " green " by   CB speakers , compared to their NS counterparts .   We make the dataset and our code available for   facilitating future research in this ﬁeld .   2 Datasets   We collected datasets used in this work from Reddit   – an online community - driven platform consisting   of numerous forums for news aggregation , content   rating , and discussions . As of 2021 , it had over   430 million monthly active users , positioning it as   the sixth most popular social site in the US . Con-   tent entries are organized by areas of interest called   subreddits , ranging from main forums that receive   extensive attention to smaller ones that foster dis-   cussion on niche areas .   2.1 Collection of Posts by CB Users   Multiple subreddits allow their contributors to spec-   ify a ﬂair – a metadata attribute adding context tothe speciﬁc subreddit , such as country of origin ,   political association , occupation , age , etc . We col-   lected the set of color - blind Reddit authors from   r / colorblind , considering only those self-   reported as having one of the red - green color blind-   ness types we study in this work : deuteranopia ,   deuteranomaly , protanopia , and protanomaly . This   procedure resulted in 2,523authors in total . Using   the collected list of user IDs , we were further able   to retrieve their entire digital footprint from Reddit ,   spanning years 2005 through 2021 .   Manual inspection of utterances produced by   the color - blind Reddit users reveals that CB au-   thors occasionally discuss various aspects related   to the impairment , as in " this game ’s color - scheme   is not a good ﬁt for colorblind , I can not tell red   from green " . Aiming at the analysis of deﬁciency-   agnostic linguistic productions , we apply strict ﬁl-   ters on user utterances , by excluding ( 1 ) sentences   originating from a manually collected list of sub-   reddits potentially related to the color blindness   phenomenon , and ( 2 ) sentences containing words   possibly indicative of the CB impairment , such   as " color " , " colorblind " , " vision " , their inﬂections   and spelling alternatives ( e.g. , " colour " ) , to prevent   potential biases stemming from deﬁciency - related   discussions . The full list of excluded subreddits   can be found in Appendix A.1 .   2.2 Collection of Posts by NS Users   The comparative nature of our analysis requires   a collection of utterances produced by normal-   sighted Reddit authors . Assuming the relatively   low ratio of∼8%of people with the CB deﬁciency   in the population ( Wong , 2011 ) , we sampled a large   set of posts and comments from the general popula-   tion of Reddit authors , excluding the ( self - reported )   set of CB users . We believe that this approach   largely targets the language of NS authors due to   their large numbers and extensive diversity .   Usage patterns of color terms in linguistic pro-   ductions can be affected by several dimensions : de-   mographic factors ( gender , age ) , language modality   ( spoken vs. written ) , linguistic register ( formal vs.   informal ) , topical preferences , etc . Multiple works   have shown that there exist detectable differences   in the language of male and female speakers , and   that topical tendencies shape both the frequency   and contextual environment of word usage . There-   fore , we strived to create a control set of NS pro-   ductions that would be aligned with CB language6674across these dimensions . While achieving a perfect   alignment is impractical , we controlled for two ma-   jor dimensions – gender and topic – while sampling   linguistic productions by NS authors .   Balancing Posts by Author Gender Color   blindness affects approximately 1 in 12 men ( 8 % )   and 1 in 200 women ( 0.5 % ) in the world ( Wong ,   2011 ) . Because most commons roots of color blind-   ness are genetic , passed along the X - chromosome ,   people with XY chromosomes ( most men ) only   need one defective chromosome ( X ) to have the   deﬁciency ( Wong , 2011 ) . Roughly speaking , the   phenomenon is 16times more frequent in men than   in women . The imbalanced 2:1ratio of male ( M ) to   female ( F ) Reddit authorsimposes an additional   prior distribution to the ratio of men vs. women in   the color - blind population of Reddit , increasing the   estimated frequency of color - blind male authors to   be32times higher than that of female in our data .   A large body of research has shown that the   language of female authors differs from that of   their male counterparts , exhibiting both topical and   stylistic divergences ( Lakoff , 1973 ; Holmes , 1984 ;   Labov , 1990 ) , to the extent that texts written by the   two genders are separable automatically ( Koppel   et al . , 2002 ; Argamon et al . , 2003 ; Rabinovich et al . ,   2017 ) . Gender - linked differences in human color   lexicon , preferences , and perception have been re-   ported in the literature ( Arthur et al . , 2007 ; Eckert   and McConnell - Ginet , 2013 ) , suggestive of their   effect on both the frequency and contextual linguis-   tic environments of color terms . A valid control   set of authors should , therefore , maintain the same   M : F author ratio as in the CB set , i.e. , 32:1 .   Recently , Rabinovich et al . ( 2020 ) released a   large dataset of posts and comments collected from   the Reddit discussion platform , where each sen-   tence is annotated by the ( self - reported ) binary au-   thor gender . We exploit this dataset by making use   of utterances by 13,630male users , and by ( ran-   domly downsampled ) 425female users , preserving   the32:1M : F author ratio and resulting in the total   of14,055authorsand over 45 M posts .   Balancing Posts by Topical Threads Usage pat-   terns of words , and in particular , color terms , arelikely to be affected by their contextual environ-   ment . As an example , using color terms in a topi-   cal thread ( subreddit ) related to interior design will   differ from that of gaming , health , or world news .   Aiming at similar topical distribution in both CB   and NS sets , we balance the distribution of sen-   tences in various subreddits across the two popula-   tions , by ( 1 ) splitting the data at the sentence - level ,   ( 2 ) using the CB subreddit distribution as the an-   chor , and ( 3 ) performing stratiﬁed sampling of NS   data to maintain the same relative topical ratios .   Speciﬁcally , letR=(r , r , r , ... , r)be the rela-   tive ratios of the amount of sentences spanning n   subreddits in the CB dataset , where / summationtextr=1 ; the   set of NS sentences is then randomly downsampled   in a manner preserving the topical distribution R.   Although the absolute number of sentences differs   signiﬁcantly in the two datasets , the relative ratio   of each topical thread is roughly preserved .   2.3 Color Terms used in this Study   We address our research questions by performing   contrastive analysis of the usage patterns of " red "   and " green " , as well as additional eight color terms   exceeding the total count of 1000 in our CB dataset :   " black " , " white " , " blue " , " brown " , " gr[ae]y " , " yel-   low " , " pink " and " purple" . This resulted in the to-   tal number of over 80 K and 380 K sentences , each   including at least one of the ten color terms , for the   CB and NS populations , respectively . Differences   ( if they exist ) are anticipated to be linked to the   CB - deﬁciency , therefore evident in the usage of   " red " and " green " terms , but not the others .   2.4 Fixed Expressions and Named Entities   Color terms are often used in ﬁxed linguistic expres-   sions – groups of words used together to express   a particular idea or concept that is more speciﬁc   than the literal combination of individual words .   Among such expressions are " black music " , " red   army " , " green energy " , etc . Both the production   and comprehension of such expressions is unlikely   to evoke a visual image of color in one ’s mind ,   hence processing of these terms does not rely on   the ability to visually distinguish between colors .   Therefore , we excluded expressions with salient   non - compositional nature from this work .   A subset of expressions exceeding the 0.5 % rel-   ative frequency among the full set of < color - term   NOUN > adjective phrases considered in this work6675was examined by a native English speaker . Out   of220unique expressions , 140were marked as   having a common ﬁxed reading , or referring to   named entities , such as sport teams ( " Green Bay " ,   " Blue Jays " ) , bands ( " Green Day " ) , or video games   ( " Red Redemption " ) . This procedure resulted in   excluding about 25 % of sentences ; the complete   list of excluded expressions can be found in Ap-   pendix A.2 . Table 1 presents the statistics of our   ﬁnal dataset , spanning over 30 K subreddits . We   also report the statistics of two complementary CB   datasets released with this work : the collection of   posts by authors with blue - yellow color blindness   ( tritanopia ) and monochrome vision ( achromatop-   sia ) , to facilitate further research in this ﬁeld .   3 Research Questions   The two sub - corpora represent a suitable testbed   for investigating questions about the unique lin-   guistic phenomena characteristic of red - green CB   authors , compared to the NS population of Reddit   users . Here , we elaborate on the research questions   addressed in this study .   RQ1 How does the frequency of color terms in   linguistic productions of CB users compare to that   of NS speakers ? We refer to ( 1 ) the frequency of   color terms in the language , and ( 2 ) the relative   frequency ratio of individual color terms – in par-   ticular , " red " and " green " – within the entire set of   the ten color terms considered in this work .   RQ2 Red - green color blindness affects the abil-   ity to generate a clear ( and distinguishable ) men-   tal image of these two colors in the mind of a   speaker , giving rise to the hypothesis that CB au-   thors would be more hesitant when using these two   color terms in linguistic environments evoking a   visual image in one ’s mind . Such linguistic environ-   ments can be commonly found in topical threadsinvolving visual experience , such as r / gaming ,   r / nature orr / fashion . Focusing on adjec-   tive phrase s with color - terms – attributive ( e.g. ,   " red / ADJ shirt / NOUN " ) or predicative ( e.g. , " this   shirt / NOUN is red / ADJ " ) – we test this hypothe-   sis by searching for detectable differences in the   psycholinguistic property of the modiﬁed nouns ’   imageability – a measure of how easily a physical   object , word , or environment evokes a clear mental   image in the mind of a person observing it ( Cortese   and Fugett , 2004 ; Scott et al . , 2019 ) .   A common way to study perceptual aspects re-   lated to language in psycholinguistic literature dis-   tinguishes between nine major psycholinguistic   dimensions , including imageability . Scott et al .   ( 2019 ) released a set of 5,500English words man-   ually ranked along the nine dimensions on the 1 - 7   scale , facilitating much research in psycholinguis-   tics and related ﬁelds ( Lewis and Lupyan , 2020 ;   Lynott et al . , 2020 ; Rabinovich et al . , 2020 ) . As   a concrete example , the word " piano " has a rank-   ing of 6.88 in the imageability dimension , while   " request " was only assigned the score of 2.50 .   We use the rankings by Scott et al . ( 2019 ) to   investigate if detectable differences can be found   in the imageability properties of nouns modiﬁed by   the " red " and " green " color terms , as employed by   red - green CB vs. NS authors .   RQ3 Multiple factors inﬂuence our lexical   choices . Linguistic evidence , extra - linguistic ex-   perience , and psychological factors affect the way   we employ various linguistic devices in a context .   Permanent lack of or deﬁciency in a sensory input   may inﬂuence our word usage ( Andersen et al . ,   1984 ; Pérez - Pereira and Conti - Ramsden , 2013 ) .   One such effect can potentially be manifested by   more conservative or , on the contrary , more atypi-   calusages of a linguistic device . Considering the   impaired visual experience in CB users , here we   ask if the contextual usage of the " red " and " green "   color terms differs between the two populations .   We investigate this question by quantifying the   contextual predictability of various color terms in   the two populations . Contextual predictability of   a linguistic unit deﬁnes how probable it is in some   local environment , thereby providing a way to es-   timate the differences in the likelihood of color   terms in that given context . Higher predictability   would be indicative of more common usage pat-   terns ; lower predictability – of less typical choices.66764 Experiments   4.1 Experimental Setup   We test the suggested research questions on the   usage of the " red " and " green " color terms , and   compare the ﬁndings to usage patterns of the ad-   ditional eight color terms , as listed in Section 2 .   We strengthen these ﬁndings by performing similar   comparative tests on two control sets , where we   do not anticipate differences between CB and NS .   All differences were tested for signiﬁcance , where   Bonferroni correction was applied with m=20 .   Control Set # 1 : Matched Adjectives Focusing   on the most common syntactic role of color terms in   the English language ( almost 80 % of all color terms   are tagged as ADJ in the POS - tagged Wikipedia   dump ) , we apply the same set of experiments on   ten adjectives matched on frequency and length   ( ±1character ) with the ten color terms . The adjec-   tives include " hot " , " ﬂat " , " social " , " clear " , " tiny " ,   " loose " , " lame " , " petty " , " clever " , " royal " . Differ-   ences detectable in " red " and " green " , but not in   this control set , would be indicative of phenomena   unique to " red " and " green " in CB vs. NS authors .   Control Set # 2 : NS Authors Random Split As   an additional control set , we perform a random split   of all normal - sighted users preserving the CB : NS   user ratio similar to that in the main corpora , as   well as gender and stratiﬁed topical balance ( see   Section 2.2 for details ) . Differences evident in   the " red " and " green " terms in the CB vs. NS   main datasets , but not in the NS1 : NS2 random   split , would imply that they can not be attributed to   random effects . We report detailed experimental   results for this control set in Appendix A.3 .   Preprocessing All posts were split at the sen-   tence level and tokenized using the spacy toolkit .   Sentences shorter than 4or longer than 50tokens   were excluded from the analysis , as were sentences   with a single token longer than 50characters .   4.2 Experimental Results   4.2.1 RQ1 – Frequency and Relative Ratio   We extracted relative frequencies of all color terms   and control adjectives ( control set # 1 ) in the two   sub - corpora , along with their frequency ratios . Ta-   ble 2 presents the results . Signiﬁcant differences   between the two populations exist ( in both direc-   tions ) , but they are not restricted to the red - green   terms . Control set # 2 split yielded differences in asingle color term and an adjective ( see Appendix   A.3 ) . We conclude that no outright CB - linked dif-   ferences can be found in the frequency - related us-   age of the two terms in our data .   4.2.2 RQ2 – Imageability of Modiﬁed Nouns   Given a sentence with a color term , we extract   the noun modiﬁed by the term ( where it exists ) by   applying dependency parsingand detecting de-   pendencies connecting the color term as ADJ to a   NOUN via the AMOD dependency type , capturing   both attributive and predicative adjective phrases .   To eliminate spelling mistakes and parsing inac-   curacies , we restrict the extracted noun set to the   top-20,000most frequent nouns in the corpus.6677   Inferring Missing Imageability Rankings The   imageability rankings in Scott et al . ( 2019 ) cover   about 3,000of the 20,000unique nouns identiﬁed   in our CB and NS datasets . We exploit these rank-   ing for supervision in extracting ratings for addi-   tional nouns in this work . Word embedding spaces   have been shown to capture variability in affective   dimensions ( Hollis and Westbury , 2016 ) and word   concreteness ( Tsvetkov et al . , 2013 ; Francis et al . ,   2021 ) , where imageability is highly correlated with   word concreteness ( Scott et al . , 2019 ) . These ﬁnd-   ings imply that such semantic representations carry   over information useful for the task of assessment   of psycholinguistic properties .   We ﬁrst normalized the imageability scores in   Scott et al . ( 2019 ) into the 0 -1 range for betterinterpretability . Using distributional word represen-   tations for the 5,500annotated words , we trained   a beta regression modelto predict imageability   scores from word embeddings . We further used   the trained model to infer imageability rankings for   the unlabeled set of nouns . We used the fasttext   word representations ( Bojanowski et al . , 2017 ) , ob-   taining the highest Pearson ’s correlations of 0.76   with the human annotated ratings on a held - out   set of 500nouns . Table 3 presents a sample of   nouns with contrasting imageability ratings – both   original and inferred by the regression model.6678   Assessing the Differences in Imageability   Scores of Modiﬁed Nouns Next we estimated   the differences across the imageability dimen-   sion in CB vs. NS authors , by recording the   imageability score of modiﬁed nouns ( where it   exists ) in the productions of the two populations .   Table 4 presents example sentences with " red "   and " green " terms and their modiﬁed nouns ’   imageability score in our dataset . We construct   two lists of imageability scores : one for the nouns   of CB speakers , and another for NS authors .   Wilcoxon ranksum signiﬁcance test was applied   to the CB / NS pair of series of values , testing   for signiﬁcant difference , and Cohen’s- dwas   calculated to indicate the magnitude of the effect .   Results and Discussion Figure 1 presents the   differences in the mean imageability score of modi-   ﬁed nouns , and Table 5 reports the full results . Sig-   niﬁcant differences exist for the " red " and " green "   terms , where higher average imageability is ob-   served in the NS authors , suggestive of less fre-   quent use of these color terms to describe enti-   ties evoking a clear mental image in a speaker ’s   mind by CB users . The opposite difference is ev-   ident for the brown color , possibly indicative of   the compensatory usage of " brown " by CB users   with high - imageability nouns . The relatively low   effect size – 0.119,0.076and−0.094for " red","green " , and " brown " , respectively – imply subtle   ( yet reliably detected ) differences in the two pop-   ulations . No control set # 1 adjectives exhibit sig-   niﬁcant differences , implying that the phenomenon   is limited to color - term usage . The same exper-   iment with the control set # 2 yielded no signiﬁ-   ca nt differences , with an exception of " black " ( with   very low Cohen’s- d=0.038 ) and " royal " ( Cohen’s-   d=−0.093 ) , which can be attributed to subtle topi-   cal differences in our data ( Appendix A.3 ) .   Figure 2 presents the top- 10most - imageable   nouns used with " green " and " red " color terms in   attributive and predicative expressions , and their   relative frequencies in the CB and NS datasets . Out   of ten nouns used in expressions with " green " , CB   authors use six less frequently than their NS coun-   terparts do , and , similarly , seven out of ten nouns   modiﬁed by " red " . Note the possibly ﬁxed mean-   ing of " green car " ( environmentally friendly ) – an   expression that is used slightly more frequently by   the CB authors . Collectively , these results are sug-   gestive of the less common use of adjective phrases   including the " red " and " green " color terms with   high - imageability nouns .   4.2.3 RQ3 – Contextual Predictability   Recent advances in deep neural networks ( DNN )   ( LeCun et al . , 2015 ; Bengio et al . , 2021 ) , and specif-   ically , in training large DNN - based masked lan-   guage models ( MLM ) ( Vaswani et al . , 2017 ) to   predict the most plausible word given a sentence   context – a technique known as context - based word   prediction ( Tenney et al . , 2019 ) – offer novel ways   to quantify differences in word usage while com-   paring large text corpora . Contextual word predic-   tion ( CWP ) is a task involving two steps : First , a   DNN - based language model is trained over large   text corpora to predict masked words within sen-   tence context . Second , the pretrained MLM is used   to predict the probability of a word to appear in a   speciﬁc masked position within a given sentence .   In this work , we use CWP to compare the " pre-   dictable " usage of color terms in language authored   by CB and NS populations . For a set of sentences   containing color terms ( or control set # 1 adjectives ) ,   we make use of BERT ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ) – an   MLM pretrained on large text corpus to assess the   predictability of a term in a given context . We   investigate RQ3 by comparing the average CWP   scores for color and adjective terms under test in the6679   CB and NS population of Reddit authors . Higher   mean predictability would be indicative of a more   typical way a term is used in its context .   Assessing Color Terms Predictability We pre-   dict the probability of a term to appear in a sentence   context using BERT ( Devlin et al . , 2018 ) . Due to   the low ratio of CB people in the general popu-   lation , we assume that the model broadly mirrors   linguistic patterns of normal - sighted people . As a   result , better predictability of a word by the model   implies a more common usage .   We perform the following steps : ( 1 ) mask the   designated term ( either a color term or an adjec-   tive ) using the < MASK > token provided by the   BERT vocabulary ; ( 2 ) use the probability distri-   bution over the lexicon produced by the model as   a prediction of the masked token . The prediction   can be manifested in two ways : ( a ) the probability   value produced by the softmax layer , and ( b ) the   rank inferred by the probability distribution over   the lexicon . For better interpretability , we makeuse of the latter ( rank ) . Table 6 presents example   sentences with red - green color terms and the BERT   rank associated with the prediction of the ( masked )   term : " red " or " green " .   Exceptionally high ranks were assigned to sen-   tences with very atypical usage patterns of color   terms , in particular , typos and ungrammatical us-   ages . As a concrete example , the color term " red "   in the sentence " that was how i redit at ﬁrst " was   assigned the rank of 5573 by the model since it is   a typo , making it very unpredictable in this con-   text . We therefore ﬁltered out all sentences with   a rank exceeding 1000 from this computation , as   such rare cases signiﬁcantly affect the average rank   prediction . This ﬁltering approach reduces the   total number of color - terms sentences by 9.3%and   8.2 % , as well as control set # 1 sentences by 5.6 %   and 4.9 % , produced by the CV and NS authors ,   respectively . The suggested approach results in   two lists of ranks for CB and NS productions . We   further test the two lists for signiﬁcant difference ,   and calculate Cohen’s- deffect size .   Results and Discussion Table 7 reports the re-   sults . Evidently , " green " , " red " , and " pink " are the   three terms exhibiting the highest Cohen’s- dscores   among all terms with signiﬁcant differences . In-   terestingly , none of the adjective and other color   terms with signiﬁcant differences exceed the effect   size of 0.05 . The differences in " pink " could pos-   sibly be attributed to its proximity to the red color.6680Among the adjectives , only " social " and " clear "   show signiﬁcant difference , with very low effect   size . Figure 3 illustrates the kernel density estima-   tion ( KDE ) of predicted ranks for the green and red   color terms in CB vs. NS speakers : the lower den-   sity for most predictable usages ( around the rank   of0 ) and the slight right shift indicate less typical   usage patterns of CB authors . No signiﬁcant dif-   ferences were found for colors in the control # 2 ;   detailed results are presented in Appendix A.3 .   5 Discussion   We view the main contribution of this study in   its large - scale data - driven empirical evidence for   theoretically - motivated hypotheses on the effect of   various sensory experiences on language learning   and linguistic production . Human language pro-   duction is a complex cognitive skill , where most   psychological models agree on three stages : con-   ceptualization , formulation and articulation . Con-   ceptualization is considered to be the phase of se-   lection and preparation of pre - linguistic informa-   tion , relying also on extra - linguistic knowledge   – among others , visual perception based on our   sensory experience . LLMs , however large and   complex , ( presumably ) lack this inherently - human   cognitive skill , but rather operationalize linguistic   production by stochastically reproducing language   constructions they were exposed to , and generaliz-   ing to additional linguistically plausible patterns .   Focusing on the effect of multi - modal input on hu-   man language production , we ask if bridging this   gap is required for contemporary LLMs in order   to generate fully naturalistic , human - like language .   We believe that this work sheds new and interest-   ing light on one of the core questions in language   acquisition , and the ability of machines to achieve   human - like linguistic competence .   6 Conclusions   We present a comparative analysis of the usage   of " red " and " green " color terms in linguistic pro-   ductions of red - green CB individuals and their NS   counterparts . We show that color - blind speakers   use these terms in less predictable contexts , and in   linguistic environments evoking mental image to a   lower extent . We believe that this study , along with   the released dataset , helps better understanding of   the effect of sensory experience on our language ,   and facilitates future research in this ﬁeld.7 Ethical Considerations   We use publicly available data to study how concep-   tual perception of colors by color - blind individuals   is reﬂected in their spontaneous linguistic produc-   tions . The use of publicly available data from so-   cial media platforms , such as Reddit , may raise   normative and ethical concerns . These concerns   are extensively studied by the research community   as reported in e.g. , Proferes et al . ( 2021 ) . Here   we address two main concerns . ( 1 ) Anonymity :   Data used for this research can only be associated   with participants ’ user IDs , which , in turn , can-   not be linked to any identiﬁable information . Ad-   ditionally , this study uses the self - reported color   blindness attribute , and does not infer any personal   or demographic trait . ( 2 ) Consent : Jagfeld et al .   ( 2021 ) debated the need to obtain informed con-   sent for using social media data mainly because it   is not straightforward to determine if posts pertain   to a public or private context . Ethical guidelines   for social media research ( Benton et al . , 2017 ) and   practice in comparable research projects ( Ahmed   et al . , 2017 ) , as well as Reddit ’s terms of use , re-   gard it as acceptable to waive explicit consent if   users ’ anonymity is protected .   8 Limitations   The main limitation of our work stems from the   difﬁculty to tease apart literal vs. ﬁgurative usages   of color terms in the collected data . Certain ex-   pressions are inevitably ambiguous since they may   be interpreted both literally and idiomatically ; e.g. ,   " green light " can refer metaphorically to a permis-   sion to go ahead , but also can literally mean a trafﬁc   light . However , while some of our ﬁltered ﬁxed   expressions have a possible literal reading , typi-   cally many fewer have a common literal reading :   these ﬁndings are consistent with those of earlier   work on idiomatic expressions ; for example , ( Fazly   et al . , 2009 ) found that for 2/3 of the potentially-   idiomatic expressions in their token dataset – i.e. ,   phrases that could be used with either an idiomatic   or literal meaning – over 75 % of their usages were   in an idiomatic reading .   While perfect distinction of ﬁxed usages in   impractical , we believe that our approach ( Sec-   tion 2.4 ) largely addresses this point by exclud-   ing usages that have a common ﬁxed interpretation .   Notably , when skipping this ﬁltering step ( i.e. , con-   sidering all phrases with color terms ) , the results   exhibit similar comparative patterns.6681Acknowledgements   We are thankful to the anonymous reviewers and   the meta reviewer for their constructive feedback .   We are indebtedly grateful to Suzanne Stevenson   for invaluable discussions and useful comments . In   addition , we would like to thank Samuel Ackerman ,   Hanan Singer and Johanna Panigutti for their kind   help with earlier versions of this work .   References6682   A Appendix   A.1 List of Excluded Subreddits   This list of topical color - related threads ( subred-   dits ) could have potentially introduced a bias to our   study , and therefore were excluded from data col-   lection and analysis . We used an exhaustive list of   subreddits including the term ‘ color ’ in their name :   r / color   r / ColorBlind   r / ColorBlindGamers   r / colorblindmemes   r / colorblindness   r / ColorBlindnessIsFun   r / ColorGrading   r / colorists   r / Colorization   r / colorizationrequests   r / colorizebot   r / colorize_bw_photos   r / ColorizedHistory   r / colorpie   r / colorsbot   r / ColorshopBattles   r / Colorslash   r / ColorThisSpace   r / Colourblind   r / ImaginaryColorscapes   r / thecolorless   r / UnitedColors   r / Shitty_Watercolour6683r / WatercolorChallenge   r / Whatcoloristhis   r / Watercolor   A.2 Fixed Expressions with Color Terms   Excluded from this Study   Table 8 reports the list of ﬁxed constructions with   color terms that were excluded from this work . We   refer to some limitations related to ﬁltering ﬁxed   expressions with color terms in Section 8 .   A.3 Experimental Results for Control Set # 2 :   NS Population Split   Tables 9 , 10 and 11 report the results . Signiﬁcant   differences in frequencies are shown for " red " and   " social " between the two sets ( Table 9 ) , " black " is   the only color term exhibiting signinﬁcant differ-   ence between the two groups with very low effect   size ( Cohen’s- d=0.038 ) – this difference can be at-   tributed to the very large sample size . BERT ranks   predictions differ for the " loose " and " royal " adjec-   tives ; again , with very low effect sizes.66846685