  Junlong Liu , Xichen Shang , Qianli Ma   School of Computer Science and Engineering ,   South China University of Technology , Guangzhou , China   junlongliucs@foxmail.com   qianlima@scut.edu.cn   Abstract   Emotion - cause pair extraction ( ECPE ) aims   to extract emotion clauses and corresponding   cause clauses , which have recently received   growing attention . Previous methods sequen-   tially encode features with a specified order .   They first encode the emotion and cause fea-   tures for clause extraction and then combine   them for pair extraction . This lead to an imbal-   ance in inter - task feature interaction where fea-   tures extracted later have no direct contact with   the former . To address this issue , we propose a   novel Pair - Based JointEncoding ( PBJE ) net-   work , which generates pairs and clauses fea-   tures simultaneously in a joint feature encod-   ing manner to model the causal relationship   in clauses . PBJE can balance the information   flow among emotion clauses , cause clauses and   pairs . From a multi - relational perspective , we   construct a heterogeneous undirected graph and   apply the Relational Graph Convolutional Net-   work ( RGCN ) to capture the various relation-   ship between clauses and the relationship be-   tween pairs and clauses . Experimental results   show that PBJE achieves state - of - the - art per-   formance on the Chinese benchmark corpus .   1 Introduction   Emotion cause extraction ( ECE ) is a kind of emo-   tion analysis task which is first proposed by Lee   et al . ( 2010 ) and has developed for a long time ( Gui   et al . , 2017 ; Li et al . , 2018b , 2019 ; Hu et al . , 2021 ) .   ECE extracts the cause for the input document and   certain emotion labels . However , emotions in the   documents need to be annotated in advance , which   requires manual input and takes lots of time ( Xia   and Ding , 2019 ) . Hence , Xia and Ding ( 2019 ) pro-   poses a new task called emotion - cause pair extrac-   tion ( ECPE ) . Given a document as the input , ECPE   extracts the clauses which express emotions andFigure 1 : An example document from the ECPE corpus   where crepresents the emotion clause and crepresents   the cause clause in pair . The words in red are the key-   words about emotion and the words in blue are about   cause . The emotion clause candccan not be a pair   for lack of causal relationship . We translate it from Chi-   nese into English for ease of reading .   their corresponding clauses which express causes   ( as shown in Figure 1 ) . Intuitively , ECPE is much   more challenging because the clauses classifica-   tion task and the pairs matching task need to be   completed simultaneously .   For ECPE , Xia and Ding ( 2019 ) first proposes a   two - stage method . However , the two - stage method   may cause the problem of error propagation . To   solve this problem , the previous work uses end - to-   end methods ( Ding et al . , 2020b ; Chen et al . , 2020d ;   Singh et al . , 2021 ) . Most of them use sequential   encoding , in which their task - specific features are   learned sequentially in a predefined order . Specifi-   cally , following Wei et al . ( 2020 ) , ECPE contains   two auxiliary tasks , which are emotion clause ex-   traction ( EE ) and cause clause extraction ( CE ) . The   previous work first separately models the clauses   for EE and CE . Then they use the clause represen-   tations for emotion and cause clauses to model the5339pairs for ECPE .   However , the sequential encoding only considers   the intra - relationship within pairs or clauses while   ignoring the inter - relationship between them . In   the sequential encoding , the information can only   flow from emotion / cause clause encoder to pair en-   coder but not vice versa , resulting in the exposure   of different amounts of information to pair encoder   and clause encoders ( Yan et al . , 2021 ; Wang et al . ,   2022 ) . In this way , if the emotion / cause clause en-   coder makes incorrect predictions , it will severely   misguide the predictions of pair . For example , in   the Figure 1 , the previous model RankCP ( Wei   et al . , 2020 ) wrongly extracts the cas an emotion   clause and the cas a cause clause with high de-   gree of confidence ( about 0.98 for cand 0.94 for   c ) . Finally , the pair encoder of RankCP extracts   the couple ( c , c)as a candidate pair , which is   an incorrect answer . The imbalanced information   flow ( i.e. , from clauses to pairs ) might have induced   this error .   On the contrary , the joint encoding manner is get-   ting more attention in multi - task learning ( Lai et al . ,   2021 ; Wang et al . , 2020 ; Fu et al . , 2019 ; Wang and   Lu , 2020 ) . It can not only balance the informa-   tion flow among emotion clauses , cause clauses   and pairs to deal with the problems of sequential   encoding we mentioned above but also take into   account the causal relationship ( Chen et al . , 2020b )   between clauses in ECPE . Since the joint encod-   ing can make the emotion / cause clause encoder   and pair encoder interact with each other . During   the process of encoding , the clause encoders can   pay more attention to whether a clause is suitable   for pairs rather than only focus on the information   about emotion or cause . The causal relationship   is a decisive factor in judging whether emotions   and causes match . For example , in Figure 1 , c   andcboth express anger , and cis cause clause .   However , ( c , c)is a pair and ( c , c)is not .   If we separately model the pairs and clauses , the   lack of relationship information between these two   clauses will increase the difficulty for the model to   judge this situation .   Given the above mentioned situation , we pro-   pose a novel Pair - Based JointEncoding ( PBJE )   method , which simultaneously generates pairs and   clauses features in a joint feature encoding man-   ner . Specifically , we model the inter - relationship   between pairs and clauses , in which a pair only   interacts with the corresponding clauses . It helpspairs learn representations and model the causal re-   lationship from clauses . Meanwhile , the key infor-   mation about emotion and cause clauses is different .   Therefore , different features should be extracted   from these two clauses . Considering these multi-   plex relationships , we construct a heterogeneous   undirected graph and apply Relational Graph Con-   volutional Networks ( RGCN ) ( Schlichtkrull et al . ,   2018 ) on it , which includes four kinds of nodes and   five kinds of edges , utilizing different approaches   to connect the nodes . Thus , it can make the in-   formation flow between emotion clauses , between   emotion clauses and pairs , etc . , more efficient .   We summarize our contributions as follows :   ( 1)We propose a novel method called PBJE to   jointly encode the clauses and pairs for ECPE , help-   ing the pairs learn the causal relationship between   the two clauses during the encoding process . ( 2)We   propose a RGCN framework to model the multi-   plex relationship between pairs and clauses . Dif-   ferent edges in the RGCN help the pairs or clauses   extract more targeted information , improving the   efficiency of the information flow . ( 3)Experiments   on ECPE benchmark corpus demonstrate that PBJE   is state - of - the - art .   2 Related Work   2.1 Sequential Encoding   Most of the previous work uses sequential encoding   to solve ECPE , including the pipeline and unified   framework . Specifically , Xia and Ding ( 2019 ) pro-   poses ECPE task and two auxiliary tasks ( EE and   CE ) . It uses a two - stage method that first extracts   the emotion and cause clauses and then matches   them as pairs using Cartesian product for predic-   tion . To address the error propagation problem ,   Wei et al . ( 2020 ) proposes a unified framework   that uses Graph Convolution Networks to encode   the emotion and cause clauses in the same repre-   sentations . However , it does not model the pairs ,   leading to a lack of contextual information in pairs .   Furthermore , Ding et al . ( 2020a , b ) and Chen et al .   ( 2020d ) build encoders for pairs and clauses sepa-   rately , which model clauses and then concatenate   them as pairs . Considering the symmetric relation   between emotion clauses and cause clauses , Cheng   et al . ( 2020 ) uses a local search method for the   clauses which are predicted as emotion clauses or   cause clauses .   However , these typical sequential encoding mod-   els encode the features in a predefined order , which5340leads to the imbalance of the inter - task feature in-   teraction . Since the interaction between clauses   and pairs is unidirectional , and the features in pairs   can not flow to clauses .   2.2 Implicit Joint Encoding   On the other hand , some work solve ECPE with   the implicit joint encoding , such as the sequence   labeling methods . We call them " implicit " because   these methods joint encode the clauses and pairs ,   but they do not have the apparent pair features in   the model . For example , Yuan et al . ( 2020 ) de-   signs a novel cause - pivoted tagging theme . This   theme first predicts if a clause is a cause clause ,   and then finds the corresponding emotion clause   among its neighbors using the relative position . In   addition , Fan et al . ( 2021 ) propose a tag distribu-   tion refinement method based on the cause - pivoted   sequence labeling , which can leverage the correla-   tions between different tasks ( i.e. , ECPE , EE , and   CE ) explicitly and exploit information interaction .   Due to the drawback of the cause - pivoted , which   can not perfectly extract the cause clauses with mul-   tiple emotion clauses , Chen et al . ( 2020c ) designs   a more fine - grained tagging scheme that combines   emotion tagging and cause tagging with emotion la-   bels separately . However , it still can not handle the   situation in which a document has multiple pairs   with the same type of emotions . Given this , Cheng   et al . ( 2021 ) designs a special set of unified labels   based on the sequence to sequence model .   Nonetheless , these implicit joint encoding meth-   ods based on sequence labeling lack the explicit in-   teraction between clauses and pairs compared with   our explicit joint encoding manner . This means that   much causal relationship information is ignored in   these methods .   3 Task Definition   Given a document D= ( c , c , . . . , c)ofN   clauses and the i - th clauses c= ( w , w , . . . , w )   ofMwords , ECPE task aims to extract all the   emotion - cause pairs in D :   P= { . . . , ( c , c ) , . . .}(1≤i , j≤N)(1 )   where candcrepresent the emotion clause and   corresponding cause clause in pairs .   Meanwhile , ECPE has two auxiliary tasks which   are emotion clauses extraction ( EE ) and cause   clauses extraction ( CE ) . A clause cis emotionclause if any pair ( c , c)is established . It can be   defined as follow :   y=/braceleftigg   1 , if ∃c∈D,(c , c)∈P   0 , otherwise(2 )   where y= 1 means cis an emotion clause .   The extraction of cause clauses is the same as emo-   tion clauses .   4 Proposed Model   In this section , we mainly describe our method ,   which encodes the pairs and clauses simultaneously   and models the causal relationship from clauses in   Relational Graph Convolutional Network ( RGCN ) .   The structure of PBJE is shown in Figure 2 .   4.1 Pair Generator   Following Wei et al . ( 2020 ) , given a document   D= ( c , c , . . . , c)consisting of Nclauses , we   feedDinto pre - trained BERT ( Devlin et al . , 2019 ) .   Specifically , we add a token [ CLS]at the beginning   and a token [ SEP]at the end for each clause and   concatenate all clauses together as input . Finally ,   we use the average pooling of the representations   of tokens except for the [ CLS]and[SEP]in each   clause as the representations of clauses . Hence , the   document with Nclauses can be represented as :   H={h , h , . . . , h } ( 3 )   where h∈Randdis the hidden size of BERT .   To obtain the representations of pairs , we em-   ploy the Pair Generator ( PG ) . Specifically , we con-   catenate the corresponding two clauses and project   them with a learnable relative position embedding :   p = W[h , h ] + b+r ( 4 )   where p∈Rrepresents the pair using c   as an emotion clause and cas a cause clause ,   W∈Randb∈Rare learnable param-   eters , r∈Ris the relative position embedding ,   and[,]denotes the concatenating operation . In   addition , following Wei et al . ( 2020 ) , we set a hy-   perparameter λas the local window ( |i−j| ≤λ )   to limit the number of pairs .   4.2 Pair - Based Joint Encoder   To balance the interaction between pairs and   clauses and capture the causal relationship in pairs ,   we construct a heterogeneous undirected graph . It   can deal with the various relationship between pairs5341   and clauses as well as the relationship between   clauses efficiently .   The graph has four kinds of nodes : emotion   clause nodes , cause clause nodes , pair nodes , and   a document node . The emotion information and   cause information in a clause are contained in dif-   ferent words . Hence , we separately use two kinds   of nodes to represent the emotion clause and the   cause clause . In addition , to directly interact with   the clauses and capture the causal relationship be-   tween the corresponding emotion clause and cause   clause , pair nodes are added to the graph . The si-   multaneous encoding of clauses and pairs balances   the information flow between them . Meanwhile ,   we add a document node to the graph , which can   provide some global information ( e.g. , topics ) for   the other nodes and interact with others like a pivot .   Moreover , there are mainly five kinds of inter-   node edges in our graph :   •Clause - Clause Edge : There are two kinds   of clause edge in our graph , including   the Clause(Emotion)-Clause(Emotion ) and   Clause(Cause)-Clause(Cause ) . All emo-   tion / cause clause nodes are fully connected   with their own edge . These two edges can   help each emotion / cause clause node interactwith other emotion / cause nodes to access con-   textual information .   •Clause - Pair Edge : There are also two kinds   of Clause - Pair edge in our graph , including   the Clause(Emotion)-Pair and Clause(Cause)-   Pair . All pair nodes are connected to their cor-   responding emotion clause nodes and cause   clause nodes with these two kinds of edge .   They are the primary way for pairs and clauses   to interact with each other and help the emo-   tion and cause nodes to transmit causal rela-   tionship to the pair nodes . Besides , the emo-   tion and cause nodes can interact through the   pair nodes and these two edges .   •Document - Others Edge : The document   node is connected to all other nodes with this   edge . It can transmit the global information   in the document to other nodes and help other   nodes ignore the noise from irrelevant nodes .   Furthermore , each type of node has a kind of self-   loop edge , which can help each node to maintain   its feature in the process of interaction .   With jointly encoding the pairs and clauses at   the same level in the graph , the model can solve5342the problems in sequential encoding and balance   the information between pairs and clauses .   Next , the Relational Graph Convolutional Net-   work ( RGCN ) ( Schlichtkrull et al . , 2018 ) is applied   on our heterogeneous undirected graph to aggregate   the features from neighbors of each node . First , we   use the representations of clause to initialize each   emotion and cause clause node :   H = H , H = H ( 5 )   where His the representations of emotion clause   nodes and His the representations of cause   clause nodes . Then , we use the representations   of pairs to initialize the pair nodes :   H={p , p , . . . , p } ( 6 )   In addition , we use the average pooling of all   clause representations of document to initialize the   document node :   H = Avgpool ( H)∈R(7 )   After that , we apply the RGCN on our graph .   Given a node u , it is defined as :   s = Wh+b ( 8)   t = s+/summationdisplay / summationdisplay1   |N(u)|Wh+b   ( 9 )   h = ReLU / parenleftig   t / parenrightig   ( 10 )   where lis the l - th layer of RGCN , Rare differ-   ent types of edges , W∈R , b∈R ,   W∈Randb∈Rare learnable parame-   ters , N(u)is the neighbours for node uconnected   with the edge of type r , and ReLU is the ReLU   activation function .   Finally , we select the last layer as the final repre-   sentation of all nodes after convolutional operation   ofθlayers :   E = H , C = H , P = H(11 )   4.3 Classification   After getting all the representations of nodes , we   use a simple MLP to obtain the predictions of   emotion - cause pairs :   ˆy = σ(MLP ( [ P , E , C ] ) ) ( 12 )   where MLP includes two full - connected layers and   a ReLU activation function between them , σis the   sigmoid activation function .   Correspondingly , the binary cross entropy loss   is utilized as the loss of ECPE :   L=−/summationdisplay / summationdisplayylog(ˆy ) ( 13 )   where yis the ground truth label .   Following the settings in Wei et al . ( 2020 ) , we   set two auxiliary tasks which are emotion clauses   extraction and cause clauses extraction in order   to make the clause nodes learn the key contextual   information about emotion or cause in the clauses .   We compute the probability as follows :   ˆy = σ(WE+b ) ( 14 )   ˆy = σ(WC+b ) ( 15 )   where ˆyandˆyare the probability of emotion and   cause clauses separately , σis the sigmoid activation   function , W∈R , W∈R , b∈Rand   b∈Rare learnable parameters .   Similarly , they have the corresponding loss :   L=−/summationdisplayylog(ˆy ) ( 16 )   L=−/summationdisplayylog(ˆy ) ( 17 )   where yandyare the ground truth labels .   4.4 Training Object   We train PBJE by jointly optimizing the three sub-   tasks . The total training object is defined as follow :   L = αL+βL+γL ( 18 )   where α , βandγare hyper - parameters.5343   5 Experiments   Extensive experiments are conducted to verify the   effectiveness of the PBJE .   5.1 Dataset and Evaluation Metrics   We use the Chinese benchmark dataset released by   Xia and Ding ( 2019 ) , which is constructed from   the SINA city news . Table 1 shows the detail of   the dataset . Following Xia and Ding ( 2019 ) , we   use the 10 - fold cross - validation as the data split   strategy and the precision P , recall Rand F - score   F1as evaluation metrics on three tasks : Emotion-   Cause Pair Extraction , Emotion clause Extraction   and Cause clause Extraction . We run 10 times and   report the average results .   5.2 Implementation Details   We implement PBJE based on Transformers(Wolf   et al . , 2020 ) , and use the default parameters in   BERT - base - Chinese , setting the hidden size dto   768 . Additionally , the hyperparameters λand   θare set to 3 and 1 , respectively . The α , β   andγare all set to 1 . We train PBJE through   AdamW ( Loshchilov and Hutter , 2018 ) optimizer   and the learning rate is 2e-5 . Meanwhile , we add   dropout(Srivastava et al . , 2014 ) with a rate of 0.2   to avoid over - fitting . Finally , we set the mini - batch   to 4 and the training epoch to 35 . The experiments   are run on the PyTorch-1.9.0 platform and Ubuntu   18.04 using the Intel(R ) Core(TM ) i7 - 8700 K CPU ,   64 GB RAM and NVIDIA GeForce RTX 2080 Ti   11 GB GPU.5.3 Overall Results   Table 2 shows the results of the Emotion - Cause   Pair Extraction ( ECPE ) task and two sub - tasks :   Emotion clause Extraction ( EE ) and Cause clause   Extraction ( CE ) . PBJE shows an apparent advan-   tage over previous work , especially on the main   task ECPE and auxiliary task CE . We argue that   the joint encoding manner plays an important role   in PBJE , making the interaction bidirectional and   balancing the information obtained by pairs and   clauses . It is worth noting that PBJE shows a sig-   nificant improvement on CE while demonstrating a   similar performance on EE compared with ECEP-   MLL , which means PBJE can balance the EE and   CE . Specifically , RankCP has a huge improvement   on EE with applying the sentiment lexicon to PBJE .   However , it achieves poor performance on CE , lead-   ing to a sharp drop on ECPE . Similarly , ECPE-2D   encounters the imbalance problem compared with   PBJE . It obtains the second best result on EE , but   the worst result on CE . In most cases , EE is more   difficult to cope with ( Xia and Ding , 2019 ) . Be-   cause the expression about cause often contains   multiple words , and thus requires the models to   understand the text . On the contrary , the expres-   sion about emotion only contains a single keyword   ( e.g. , angry , as shown in Figure 1 ) . We argue that   the balance benefits from modeling two types of   clauses efficiently . And further , this balance helps   PBJE improve performance on ECPE .   5.4 Ablation Study   Ablation studies are conducted to verify the effec-   tiveness of the Pair Generator ( PG ) and different   relationship edges and nodes in our graph . Table 3   shows the results of the ablation studies.5344   w/o Clause - Clause Edge We use one   type of edge to replace the Clause(Emotion)-   Clause(Emotion ) Edge and the Clause(Cause)-   Clause(Cause ) Edge . Without these two edges , the   performance of our model dramatically drops on   CE , further leading to the drop on ECPE . It breaks   the balance between EE and CE , meaning the   model tends to focus on EE but neglect CE , since   EE is the earliest task among these three tasks .   w/o Clause - Pair Edge We remove the   Clause(Emotion)-Pair Edge and Clause(Cause)-   Pair , and use another edge to replace them . The   performance on ECPE is even worse than w/o   Clause - Clause Edge . The pairs separately extract   the emotions from emotion clauses and the reason   from cause clauses . Without this difference , the   model can hardly extracts information efficiently   for the causal relationship .   w/o Pair Node We remove the pair nodes and   separately model the emotion and cause clauses   using the RGCN . The pairs from PG are utilized   to replace the pairs after RGCN . In this way , it is   a typical sequential encoding method . Although   the PG can still provide some information between   emotion and cause clauses , it generates the second   worst result on F1 . The result shows the importance   of joint encoding manner and the causal relation-   ship .   w/o PG Meanwhile , we remove the PG and use   another relative position embedding to replace the   representations of pairs , which means the pairs   with the same relative positions will have the same   initial representations in the RGCN and do not   contain any clause information . Without the PG ,   the performance is still better than w/o Pair Node .   Despite of absence of clause information , the pairs   can learn clause features and causal relationship   by the Clause - Pair Edge , which also indicates that   the causal relationship is crucial to the modeling of   pairs emerging from joint encoding manner .   w/o Pair Node & PG Moreover , we remove the   pair nodes and PG together , similar to the methods   in previous work which only encode the clauses   for prediction . The F1on ECPE sharply dropped   by 2.61 % and it is the worst model in our experi-   ments . We argue it is caused by the ignorance of   pair modeling and the causal relationship in pairs .   In addition , we perform some fine - grained ex-   periments to verify the effect of document node in   Appendix B. We believe the information of docu-   ments ( e.g. , topics ) is beneficial for the ECPE .   5.5 The Effect of Joint Encoding Manner   To verify the effect of taking into account the joint   encoding manner in ECPE , we further conduct   some experiments in special cases .   We first compare the results in two situations :   documents with one ground truth pair and docu-   ments with two or more ground truth pairs . The   results are shown in Table 4 . PBJE shows clear   superiority in both situations . In the documents   with a single pair , PBJE demonstrates a significant   improvement on F1 on ECPE , because it avoids the   problem caused by sequential encoding . Specifi-   cally , in sequential encoding , if the clause encoders   extract wrong emotion or cause clauses , the pair   encoder is prone to easily group the wrong clauses   and extract them as a pair without the bidirectional   interaction between clauses and pairs . Apart from   that , PBJE also shows a competitive improvement   on the document with multiple pairs , which means   PBJE can take into account more about the causal   relationship and handle the situation mentioned in   Figure 1.5345   In addition , we compare the results in another   two situations , which are pairs ( c , c)with rela-   tive position less or equal than 1 ( |i−j| ≤ 1 )   and greater or equal than 2 ( |i−j| ≥2 ) . The   results are shown in Table 5 . Because of the lin-   guistic expression habits , the benchmark dataset   has a strong position bias ( Ding and Kejriwal , 2020 ;   Xia et al . , 2019 ; Ding et al . , 2019 ) . Most of the   pairs in the dataset have a relative position within 1   ( about 85 % ) . The models can easily achieve a good   performance with enough training data in this situ-   ation . However , extracting the more difficult pairs   are ignored , and these pairs are still prevalent in   the real world . Apart from getting a significant im-   provement in the relative position within 1 , PBJE   surpasses RankCP in the relative position greater   or equal to 2 . It shows that PBJE can handle the   more complex situation . We argue that the causal   relationship in joint encoding manner contributes   to PBJE the most . Since PBJE needs to consider   the causal relationship among multiple clauses and   filter irrelevant clauses , when the relative position   is greater than 2 and it can not supply enough in-   formation .   5.6 Case Study   We analyze an example selected from the bench-   mark corpus to demonstrate the effectiveness of   joint encoding manner and considering the causal   relationship in PBJE , which is shown in Table 6 .   In addition , we visualize the prediction results in   Figure 3 .   In this example , RankCP and PBJE both extract   the wrong clause cin EE , which might be at-   tributable to the word " happy " in the text . Although   cexpresses happiness for the Chinese New Year ,   there is no corresponding cause clause . We do not   define it as an emotion clause . Moreover , in CE ,   RankCP extracts a wrong cause clause c , but PBJE   does not ( with about 0.25 confidence ) . The differ-   ence shows the clause encoding capability of PBJE .   It is worth noting that , in ECPE , the sequential en-   coding method RankCP tends to easily couple the   clause extracted in EE and CE , and it can not cor-   rect the errors in EE and CE , resulting in extracting   another two wrong pairs . On the contrary , PBJE   can avoid them and find out the most likely pair   by the joint encoding manner and the balance of   information flow between pairs and clauses .   In addition , we analyze more examples in Ap-   pendix C. We can find that RankCP tends to extract   as many candidate pairs as possible . But there   could be many wrong pairs . On the contrary , PBJE   tries to extract the correct pairs directly . It can ex-   plain why PBJE performs better on precision and   worse on recall compared with RankCP .   6 Conclusion   In this paper , we propose a novel Pair - Based Joint   Encoding ( PBJE ) network , which encodes the   pairs and clauses features simultaneously . It can   balance the inter - task feature interaction compared   with sequential encoding and model the causal rela-   tionship between emotion clauses and correspond-   ing cause clauses by pairs . Furthermore , it can5346avoid the wrong predictions in previous tasks in the   multi - task learning . From a multi - relational per-   spective , we propose a Relational Graph Convolu-   tional Network ( RGCN ) framework to capture the   relationship among emotion clauses , cause clauses ,   pairs , and document , including four types of node   and five types of edge . The experiments on the Chi-   nese benchmark corpus show that PBJE achieves   state - of - the - art performance .   Limitations   Following the previous work , we implement PBJE   setting the hyperparameter λto 3 . It means PBJE   can only extract the pairs with a relative distance   less than or equal to 3 ( i−j≤3 ) . However , the   maximum relative distance of pairs in the dataset is   12 . Therefore , no matter how good PBJE is , it can   not extract all pairs . There are some methods to   solve this problem . For example , we can set λto 12 .   Furthermore , we can enumerate all possible pairs   without limiting relative distance ( λ= + ∞ ) to   satisfy a larger relative distance that may occur in   application . Nonetheless , these two methods will   slightly affect the performance of PBJE . Because   when we increase λ , there will be more negative   samples in the dataset , which exacerbates the prob-   lem of data imbalance . On the other hand , because   of the language expression , the emotion clauses and   cause clauses co - occur most of the time . Setting   a large λis unnecessary . Therefore , the tradeoff   between relative distance and performance is what   we need to explore in the future . Additionally , a   new method which is free from the influence of the   relative distance is more desirable .   Acknowledgements   We thank the anonymous reviewers for their   helpful feedbacks . The work described in this   paper was partially funded by the National   Natural Science Foundation of China ( Grant   Nos . 62272173 , 61872148 ) , the Natural Science   Foundation of Guangdong Province ( Grant Nos .   2022A1515010179 , 2019A1515010768 ) .   References53475348   A Comparative Approaches   We compare PBJE with the following methods ,   which use the pre - trained BERT as encoder :   •ECPE-2D ( Ding et al . , 2020a ): This method   uses the 2D representation to construct a pairs   matrix and utilizes the 2D transformer module   to interact with other pairs for prediction .   •TransECPE ( Fan et al . , 2020 ): It is a   transition - based method which transforms the   task into a procedure of parsing - like directed   graph construction .   •RankCP ( Wei et al . , 2020 ): This method tack-   les emotion - cause pair extraction from a rank-   ing perspective , which ranks pairs in a docu-   ment and proposes a one - step neural approach   to extract .   •PairGCN ( Chen et al . , 2020d ): This method   constructs a graph using the pair nodes and a   Pair Graph Convolutional Network to model   the dependency relations among candidate   pairs .   •ECPE - MLL ( Ding et al . , 2020b ): It is the cur-   rent state - of - the - art method , which employs   two joint frameworks , including the emotion-   pivot cause extraction and cause - pivoted emo-   tion extraction with sliding window strategy .   •UTOS ( Cheng et al . , 2021 ): It solves this   task using sequence labeling , which allows to   extract pairs through one pass and addresses   the error propagation problem .   •MTST - ECPE ( Fan et al . , 2021 ): This method   uses a multi - task sequence tagging framework   with refining the tag distribution .   B The Effect of Document Node   To verify the effect of document node , some exten-   sive experiments are conducted in different lengths   of a document , according to the average number of   clauses per document 14.77and the median 14 .   As shown in Table 7 , the document node can   help PBJE to improve the performance on ECPE5349   in both short ( < 14 ) and long ( ≥14 ) documents .   Since the emotion clauses and cause clauses make   up a small proportion of the total clauses in each   document , even in the short documents . Most of the   documents only have 1 pair . Therefore , the fully   connected graphs of emotion and cause clauses   contain lots of noise . It makes each emotion and   cause clause node can hardly learn the effective and   enough contextual information . In this situation ,   the document node can filter the invalid informa-   tion and integrate them into global information ,   then transmits them to other nodes through the   Document - Others Edge . However , the improve-   ment in short documents on ECPE is much more   than in long documents with the help of document   node . Because when the document is long , there   are too many features of clauses for average pool-   ing . This results in a lower effective information   density in long documents than in short documents .   Further , it makes the representations of document   uncharacteristic and contain noise . But the per-   formance does not drop in this situation since the   Document - Others Edge can selectively transmit   information through learning ability .   C Additional Case Study   To further demonstrate the importance of consider-   ing the causal relationship in RGCN , we analyze   another two examples selected from the benchmark   corpus . We show them in Table 8   For the first example , although RankCP extracts   all the correct pairs , it extracts another incorrect   pair(c , c ) . The clause cexpresses surprise , and   the clause cexpresses the persistence of fixing cars   even when he is sick . Although they are emotion   clause and cause clause separately , cis not the   reason to cause cobviously . By considering the   causal relationship , PBJE avoids this situation .   Next , for the second example , RankCP encoun-   tered the same problem as the first example . Fur-   ther , the emotion clause cexpresses worry , and c   expresses disappointment , which are both negative   emotions . Moreover , the cause clause cdescribes   the same thing with cause clause cabout the age   restrictions on blood donation . Therefore , it is   more difficult for models to judge in this situation .   Nevertheless , PBJE successfully deals with this   situation .   D Hyperparameters Discussion   As shown in Figure 4 , we examine the effects of dif-   ferent values of θon ECPE . We can observe that the   performance tends to drop with the increase of the   layers of RGCN . We argue that the over - smoothing   causes this problem ( Li et al . , 2018a ; Zhou et al . ,   2020 ; Chen et al . , 2020a ) . Specifically , when the   θis greater than 1 , it means that the Relationship   Graph Convolutional Network(RGCN ) are repeat-   edly applied . It may mix the features of nodes from5350different classes and make them indistinguishable ,   leading to the drop on ECPE . In addition , more   layers indicates more learnable parameters , which   will result in over - fitting ( Zhou et al . , 2021 ; Rong   et al . , 2020).5351