  Mark Dingemanse   Center for Language Studies   Radboud University   mark.dingemanse@ru.nlAndreas Liesenfeld   Center for Language Studies   Radboud University   andreas.liesenfeld@ru.nl   Abstract   Informal social interaction is the primordial   home of human language . Linguistically di-   verse conversational corpora are an impor-   tant and largely untapped resource for com-   putational linguistics and language technology .   Through the efforts of a worldwide language   documentation movement , such corpora are in-   creasingly becoming available . We show how   interactional data from 63 languages ( 26 fam-   ilies ) harbours insights about turn - taking , tim-   ing , sequential structure and social action , with   implications for language technology , natural   language understanding , and the design of con-   versational interfaces . Harnessing linguistically   diverse conversational corpora will provide the   empirical foundations for flexible , localizable ,   humane language technologies of the future .   1 The natural habitat of language   The primary ecology of natural language is in real-   life episodes of human interaction . This is where   people learn language and where they use it to co-   ordinate joint actions , build social relations , and   exchange information ( Schieffelin and Ochs , 1986 ;   Schegloff , 2006 ) . In contrast , when machines en-   counter language , it tends to be radically divorced   from this habitat and reduced to large amounts   of decontextualised non - interactive text ( Bender   and Koller , 2020 ; Marge et al . , 2022 ) . Natural   languages are also characterized by diversity at   many levels , from sound and sign systems to syntax   and semantics ( Nettle , 1999 ; Evans and Levinson ,   2009 ) . In contrast , the language samples that in-   form language technology tend to be limited to a   handful of well - resourced languages , representing   only a tiny sliver of the world ’s linguistic diversity   ( Blasi et al . , 2021 ; Joshi et al . , 2020 ) .   The time is ripe for language technology to ben-   efit from linguistically diverse interactional data . Insights from such data can strengthen the empiri-   cal foundations of language technology , help break   down the hegemony of the resourceful few , and   provide room for linguistic diversity in localized   applications ( Bird , 2020 ; Danielescu and Christian ,   2018 ) . Today there is a growing set of conversa-   tional corpora of diverse languages , thanks in large   part to important primary work on language doc-   umentation and description ( Seifart et al . , 2018 ) .   We argue such corpora represent an important and   mostly untapped resource for language technology .   Corpus size is often seen as a challenge , but   data comes in levels of granularity . A well - curated   corpus amounting to an hour of lively conversa-   tion may not contain enough text to train a lan-   guage model . But it does provide thousands of   conversational turns organized in larger sequential   structures of social action , along with fine details   about timing , participation and linguistic structure .   Since conversational corpora are one of the few   places where we can study language in a way that   approaches its natural habitat , collectively , these   corpora harbour important insights about human   interactional infrastructure . Figure 1:5614   Recent work has shown the dire state of lan-   guage resources in relation to linguistic diversity   ( Blasi et al . , 2021 ; Joshi et al . , 2020 ) , and pointed   to ways forward to increase the empirical coverage   of language typology and technology ( Asgari and   Schütze , 2017 ; Bjerva and Augenstein , 2018 ; Deri   and Knight , 2016 ; Duong et al . , 2015 ; Levow et al . ,   2021 ) . Work in distributional and corpus - based   typology is showing how to analyse linguistic in-   formation available in text corpora ( Ponti et al . ,   2019 ; Seifart et al . , 2021 ; Levshina , 2021 ) .   Compared to text corpora , conversational cor-   pora are much harder to collect , annotate and tran-   scribe , and as a result they represent a much smaller   subset of data . However , we think there is reason   for cautious optimism . In this paper we present a   first foray into this domain . We collate conversa-   tional corpora made available for research purposes   and find there is now data available for a wide range   of languages , many of them not the usual suspects   of NLP research . Besides well - known resources   like TalkBank and the Linguistic Data Consortium ,   here we highlight the potential of corpora collected   and archived as part of language documentation   projects around the world ( see Appendix B ) .   Our focus is specifically on corpora of infor-   mal conversations among co - present participants ,   transcribed and time - aligned at the level of con-   versational turns . Details of our curation and anal-   ysis pipeline are described in the Appendix and   in Liesenfeld & Dingemanse ( 2022 ) . While it   is impossible to exhaustively list or estimate thesize of extant conversational corpora , the quality-   controlled subset we consider here represents 63   languages from 26 language families ( Figure 1 ) ,   and amounts to over 800 hours of talk produced   by over 11.000 partipants , segmented into over 1.6   million turns ( 9.3 million words ) ( Figure 2 ) .   In what follows , we examine aspects of this col-   lection with scientific and technological applica-   tions in mind . In doing so , we aim to contribute to-   wards a move from the most represented to a more   representative sample of the world ’s languages , and   to show how the study of human interaction can   yield insights of relevance to linguistics , language   technology and human - computer interaction .   2 From text to talk - in - interaction   Despite recent advances in speech and dialogue   modelling , to date , no machine can “ lead a half-   decent coherent conversation with a human ” ( Kopp   and Krämer , 2021 ) . There are several reasons for   this , including the need for complex cognitive skills   like intention attribution and incremental common   ground construction , but equally important is a   dearth of data and domain knowledge : modern   natural language processing predominantly deals   with text , not talk .   As a simple illustration of the difference , com-   pare frequency distributions of words and phrases   in corpora of talk versus text in English , an Indo-   European language ( Figure 3 ) . The forms most   characteristic of talk are interactive interjections   likehm , uhhuh , um , yeah , okay . Items like this5615   streamline conversation , calibrate mutual under-   standing and coordinate joint action ( Clark , 1996 ;   Bavelas et al . , 2000 ) . Yet it is precisely such items   that are woefully underrepresented in the data un-   derlying most current language models ( Prevot   et al . , 2019 ) . It is little surprise that conversational   agents have a hard time dealing with informal con-   versational style ( Hoegen et al . , 2019 ) and build-   ing social bonds ( Cassell , 2020 ) , and that speech   recognition easily mixes up interjections with op-   posite pragmatic functions ( Zayats et al . , 2019 ) if it   does n’t miss them altogether ( Cumbal et al . , 2021 ) .   Proposed solutions to such challenges involve   imparting agents with domain - specific interactional   knowledge like keyword - based scripted conversa-   tional routines and domain knowledge from Q&A   databases ( Bocklisch et al . , 2017 ; Dinan et al . ,   2019 ) or with capacities for feedback generation   ( Oertel et al . , 2016 ) or common ground reasoning   ( Kopp and Krämer , 2021 ) . Here we propose a com-   plementary approach : pay closer attention to how   language is used in informal everyday interaction   around the world . We believe this is important   because just like natural language processing has   long been limited to monologic texts , the science of   human interaction has for the most part been based   just on English and a small number of similarly   well - resourced languages ( Henrich et al . , 2010 ) .   If language technology is to be maximally scal-   able , localizable and usable , it will greatly benefit   from broadening its empirical base towards more   interactive data from a wider range of languages .   Such data can improve our understanding of inter-   actional infrastructure and can help us chart both   language - specific routines and pragmatic univer-   sals of interaction.3 From strings to social actions   Utterances are not just strings with probability dis-   tributions defined over them ; they stand in relation   to other turns , with which they form structured   sequences and implement social actions . A key   element of this is a socially sanctioned turn - taking   system by which participants self - organize the dis-   tribution of turns over participants ( Sacks et al . ,   1974 ) . Foundational work on English showed that   participants appear to avoid both gaps and over-   laps , often achieving speaker transition in as little   as 200 ms . This temporal organization is so tight   that it has long puzzled psycholinguists , who ob-   serve that even planning a simple sentence in isola-   tion may take up to 600ms , implying that language   comprehension and production must run in parallel   ( Levinson , 2016 ) . Indeed participants do not wait   for pauses to begin their contribution , but instead   start planning early , continuously weighing a range   of cues to determine the likely point at which the   current turn ends ( de Ruiter et al . , 2006 ) .   Subsequent cross - linguistic work has confirmed   this no - gap - no - overlap goal , showing that across 10   languages from 7 language families , floor transfers   are usually achieved between 0 and 200ms , with   language - specific means falling within 250ms on   either side of the mean ( Stivers et al . , 2009 ) . Cur-   rently available data allows us to replicate this in   24 languages from 12 unrelated families , more than   doubling the sample size . Because our aim is to   characterize the overall temporal features of quo-   tidian interaction , we consider all turn transitions   in dyadic stretches of conversation ( see Appendix   A.1 for a validation in question - answer sequences ) .   In the 24 corpora that contain at least 1000   dyadic turn transitions , we find substantially the5616same finely calibrated temporal distribution of   turns , suggesting that participants aim for a no-   gap , no - overlap target , with the bulk of language-   specific means falling within a relatively narrow   bandwidth of variation ( Figure 4 ) . In the full set of   674 223 transitions , 46 % of turns are produced in   slight terminal overlap . This includes both fuller   turns and short responsive tokens ( Goodwin , 1986 ;   Corps et al . , 2022 ) , and underlines the extent to   which human interaction everywhere involves a   braiding of successive and concurrent moves .   The implications for language and speech tech-   nology are considerable ( Skantze , 2021 ; Roddy ,   2021 ) . It means that social robots that switch be-   tween listen and talk states will be behind the curve   approximately half of the time : perceived as re-   sponding too slowly or switching to a listening   state too late to pick up early and concurrent re-   sponses . If the aim is to facilitate fluid interac-   tion , a first challenge is to achieve the rapid transi-   tions that characterize human language use . This   requires incremental and continuous processing   ( Levinson , 2016 ; Pitsch , 2016 ) , representing a radi-   cal departure from classic reactive spoken dialog   systems . Most work in this area is still based on En-   glish , potentially jeopardizing the generalizability   of findings . Cross - linguistic conversational cor-   pora will prove crucial to identify the most robust   prosodic , lexical and interactional features that can   inform continuous projections of transition rele-   vance places ( Ward et al . , 2018 ; Roddy et al . , 2018 ) .   Even if rapid transitions may be achieved with   the help of continuous , context - sensitive process-   ing , a further layer of language - specific calibra-   tion will be necessary to account for the known   range of variation ( Stivers et al . , 2009 ) . Experi-   mental work in this domain shows measurable in-   tercultural differences in orientations to inter - turn   silences ( Roberts et al . , 2011 ): across cultures , peo-   ple treat gaps as meaningful beyond a threshold of   a few hundred milliseconds , but the exact threshold   varies with culture . Without calibration of this kind ,   people may easily experience conversational agents   as overeager , stilted , or out of sync . Progress in   this domain may hinge on endowing interactive   technologies with a sense for timing and rhythm   ( Yu et al . , 2021 ; Pouw et al . , 2021 ) .   An important aspect of human conversation is   how rapid turn - taking enables on - the - fly calibra-   tion and coordination . This motivates a theoret-   ical turn from singular , perfectly formulated , un-   ambigous utterances to incremental , good enough ,   co - constructed understanding ( Dingemanse et al . ,   2015 ; Albert and de Ruiter , 2018 ; van Arkel et al . ,   2020 ) . Increasingly , parsers and other models of   grammar and dialogue incorporate this kind of   incremental perspective ( Schlangen and Skantze ,   2011 ; Vanzo et al . , 2018 ; Buschmeier and Kopp ,   2018 ) . Promising application - oriented work in   this direction exists ( Ekstedt and Skantze , 2020;5617   Skantze , 2017 ) , though two critical challenges re-   main : ( i ) text corpora of asynchronous interaction   are much less piecemeal and incremental than co-   present interaction , and ( ii ) the interactional dis-   ruptiveness of timing discrepancies can be masked   by the flexibility of human participants , who soon   learn to revert to simpler forms of robot - directed   talk ( Suchman , 2007 ; Seibt , 2017 ) .   4 Keeping unity and diversity in sight   While text corpora are sometimes treated as shape-   less collections of strings , conversational data is not   flat but richly structured ( Goodwin , 1981 ; Couper-   Kuhlen and Selting , 2017 ) . Each turn at talk builds   on what came before and shapes the possibility   space of what comes next ( Firth , 1935 ; Heritage ,   1984 ) . Conversation analysts call this sequence or-   ganization ( Schegloff , 2007 ) , and cross - linguistic   work has uncovered a number of basic sequential   positions along with slots for inserts and expan-   sions ( Kendrick et al . , 2020 ) . Sequences are one of   the major tools for organizing social action .   Studying conversational sequences across di-   verse languages poses considerable challenges , be-   cause it requires access not just to form but also to   social action or intent ( Bender and Koller , 2020 ) .   While annotated corpora of dialog acts ( Jurafsky   et al . , 1998 ) are available for a small number of   well - resourced languages ( Bunt et al . , 2020 ) , they   invite an overly categorical view of what is in fact   fluid and emergent action ascription . The open-   endedness of social actions in casual conversa-   tion ( Levinson , 2013 ) places severe constraints onthe utility of slot - filling approaches ( Papaioannou   et al . , 2018 ) , which have their origin in narrow   task - oriented interactions ( Liu et al . , 2021 ) .   Here we probe conversational sequencing by   starting from coarse - grained but robust structural   facts about the relative distribution of turns and talk .   Casual interaction often combine lively spates of   equitable exchange with more lopsided moments   such as tellings in which one participant secures   the floor and the other assumes a recipient role   ( Schegloff , 1982 ; Goodwin , 1995 ) . Some work   on English has captured this as chat versus chunk ,   where a chunk is defined as ‘ a segment where one   speaker takes the floor and is allowed to dominate   the conversation for an extended period ’ ( Eggins   and Slade , 2004 ; Gilmartin et al . , 2018 ) . Using a   measure of relative skew in contributions in a mov-   ing 10 second window , we can identify stretches   corresponding to such a distinction , as well as tran-   sitions from one state to another , across unrelated   languages ( Figure 5A - C ) .   Knowing about such states and transitions be-   tween them is of great relevance to language tech-   nology and dialog systems . For instance , the rel-   ative predictability of responses differs strongly   across states ( Gilmartin , 2021 ) . Our results sug-   gest that it is possible to reliably identify at least   some broad activity types across languages , open-   ing up possibilities for investigating the linguistic   resources that characterize them , and the ways in   which people transition between them . The notions   of ‘ chat ’ and ‘ chunk ’ should not be reified , but the   distinction points to a data - driven way to get ana-5618   lytical grip on structural features of activity types   in conversation ( Levinson , 1979 ) .   Work on English has found that tellings can   be recognized not just by their skewed division   of labour , but also by the use of continuers like   mhm ( Howes and Eshghi , 2021 ; Schegloff , 1982 )   at places where turn transition would be relevant .   We find that this is the case in languages in our   sample too , so a simple conclusion could be that   we have found a way to unearth universal aspects   of tellings , or ‘ chunks ’ , with possible implications   for the design of , say , dialog systems sensitive to   the interactional achievement of dialog states .   However , on closer look , the data also provides   reason to take linguistic diversity seriously . Figure   6A zooms in on four longer stretches of conversa-   tion in English and Korean . Here , circles highlight   the use of the most frequent continuer in the lan-   guage , which is ‘ mhm ’ in English and 응‘eung ’ in   Korean . What is already apparent in the four con-   versations shown in panel A is also borne out in a   quantitative analysis of 100 random samples of 80   second stretches of English and Korean conversa-   tions : while 8 % of turns are continuers in English ,   this is 21 % in Korean ( Figure 6B ) . This higher fre-   quency also comes with higher susceptibility to   overlap : whereas in English , 39 % of continuer to-   kens occurs in full or partial overlap , in Korean   this is 73 % . The difference does not appear to be   reducible to transcription conventions ; for instance ,   in both corpora , continuers repeated in quick suc-   cession are transcribed as a distinct format ( mhm   mhm , 응응 eung eung ) and excluded from these   counts ; and in both corpora , the average number of   words per turn lies around 6 ( Korean : 5.7 ; English :   6.9 ) and the average number of turns per 10 second   window is 5.6 ( Korean : 5.6 ; English : 5.6).One implication of this is that continuers are ap-   parently relevant at more points during interaction   in Korean than in English ( Kim , 1999 ) , which has   consequences for the design of dialog systems , in-   cremental parsers and conversational agents . For in-   stance , a conversational agent in Korean might have   to issue more displays of recipiency and should be   prepared to deal with incoming feedback at a higher   pace ; in the same context , an agent calibrated to   English might need different conversation design .   The observed variation is extreme enough to war-   rant a critical look at the notion of feedback rele-   vance spaces ( Howes and Eshghi , 2021 ): perhaps   this notion needs to be relativized to cover attested   cross - linguistic diversity , as has been suggested in   qualitative conversation analytic research ( White ,   1989 ; Clancy et al . , 1996 ; Young and Lee , 2004 ) .   We have touched here only on some coarse-   grained aspects of sequential structure by way of   demonstrating the utility of conversational corpora   representing diverse languages . Plenty of other   phenomena are ripe for similar treatment .   5 Interactional tools   A key finding of linguistics going back to Estoup   and Zipf ( Estoup , 1917 ; Zipf , 1935 ) is that a small   number of items tends to be used for a large amount   of work . Power law distributions are ubiquitous in   linguistic data and well - studied across a range of   languages ( see Piantadosi 2014 for review ) . Most   analyses in this line of work tokenize textual data   on the basis of the observation that sentences are   built out of reusable elements . For such tokenised   items ( roughly , ‘ words ’ ) , we have come to expect   the rank - frequency distribution to look linear on a   log / log scale . Yet language does not come in stray   words , but in turns at talk : communicative moves5619   of varying complexity and conventionality .   Since communicative turns are rarely studied as   holistic units , it is an open question to what extent   they may or may not show evidence of linguistic   laws . Such an organization may seem prima facie   unlikely : after all , we know we build complex turns   out of simpler elements like words and phrases , and   the unlimited expressive power generated by this   compositionality is rightly celebrated as one of the   hallmarks of human language ( Hockett , 1960 ) . On   the other hand , as Firth ( 1935 ) noted , “ Conversa-   tion is much more of a roughly prescribed ritual   than most people think ” . Indeed a look at conversa-   tional data shows that many turns are not one - offs :   at least 28 % of the utterances in our sample ( 436   367 out of 1 532 915 across 63 languages ) occur   more than once , and over 21 % ( 329 548 ) occur   more than 20 times . Many of these recurring turn   formats are interjections and other pragmatic de-   vices that help manage the flow of interaction and   calibrate understanding ( Yngve , 1970 ; Jefferson ,   1985 ; Allwood et al . , 1990 ; Ward , 2006 ; Norrick ,   2009 ) . The ubiquity and communicative impor-   tance of these items opens up the possibility of   power law - like distributions at turn level for some   subset of turns .   Here we compare rank - frequency distributions   of tokenized items and standalone turn formats in   the subset of 22 languages with conversational cor-   pora large enough to feature at least 20 recurringstandalone turn formats ( Figure 7 ) . We find that   tokenized items , as expected , reproduce some well-   known structural properties of rank - frequency dis-   tributions , including their linear nature on a log - log   plot and a systematic deviation from this linear-   ity for the highest frequency ( lowest rank ) words .   For standalone turns , distributions trail off sharply   towards the lowest frequencies , reflective of the   creative and compositional nature of many utter-   ances . However , the considerable subset of recur-   ring turn formats ( Figure 5 , purple ) may also sug-   gest a partial power law distribution : though the   data is sparser , a log - log line fitted to the 20 % of   turns used at least 20 times has a comparable slope   in most corpora .   The result can not simply be reduced to the fact   that standalone turns are drawn from the larger   population of single words . Recurrent turn for-   mats tend to have specialized discourse - level func-   tions , and while many are single words like ‘ m - hm ’ ,   ‘ huh ? ’ or ‘ oh ’ , one out of three are multi - word ex-   pressions like English ‘ but um ’ , Japanese あそう   なんだ a soo nanda ‘ oh really ’ or Hungarian nem   tudom ‘ I dunno ’ . If such recurring formats obey   a power law distribution , this provides novel , in-   teractionally motivated evidence in support of the   claim that the phrase rather than the word may   be a privileged locus for Zipf ’s law of frequency   ( Ryland Williams et al . , 2015 ) . In this context it   is worth recalling that Zipf motivated his observa-5620tions in terms of tools - for - jobs ( Zipf , 1949 ) . Just as   the tools of artisans are constructed and arranged   in ways that support efficient use , so the tools of   language are organized to optimally carry out their   jobs . In this sense , we can speak of recurring turn   formats as interactional tools .   Even if interactional tools make up a significant   proportion of turns in any exchange ( as we saw in   § 4 , continuers alone may account for 10 to 20 % of   turns at talk ) , they are easily obscured by prema-   ture tokenization or erased by seemingly innocuous   procedures like stopword removal . And yet it is   precisely these interactional tools that may prove   essential to understanding and modelling interac-   tional infrastructure within and across languages .   Getting at these tools and charting their universal-   ity and variability represents a key goal for human   language technologies .   Overlooking interactional tools and the details   of their deployment comes with immediate adverse   consequences . A recent user study reported that a   significant number of participants ran into interac-   tional turbulence and overlap when interacting with   a neural conversational agent through an English-   based voice user interface ( Hoegen et al . , 2019 ) .   The turbulence was traced to the agent making seg-   mentation errors and responding to every single   utterance detected . This in turn made it harder for   human participants to predict when the agent was   done speaking , leading to cascades of overlap and   confusion . The study proposed two solutions to   deal with this ( casting the interactional scuffles as   situations to be avoided rather than as the rapid   and flexible recalibrations they represent in human   interaction ) . The first is to return the floor to a par-   ticipant as soon as overlap is detected . This seems   to assume that any vocalization by a participant is   an attempt to take the floor ( rather than , say , a min-   imal display of understanding - so - far ) . The second   proposal is to “ filter out stop words and interjec-   tions from the participant ” on the grounds that the   agent responding to these can confuse participants ,   “ since people often do not even realize they are   using stop words or are interjecting ” ( p. 117 ) .   However , people do not produce interjections   stochastically , but wield them as interactional tools   in the service of calibrating mutual understanding   and coordinating joint action ( Dingemanse , 2017 ) .   A continuer like mhm shows understanding , while   a repair initiator like huh ? requests clarification .   Indiscriminately filtering out such utterances robsconversational agents of direct access to public dis-   plays of understanding and misunderstanding . It   also robs people of the very tools they use to co-   construct interdependence and understanding , and   therefore of a significant part of their linguistic   agency . Filtering out interjections to avoid inter-   actional turbulence is like removing all pedestrian   crossings to deal with self - driving cars crashing   into people . The result may be an incident - free   zone , but at significant cost to human flexibility   and agency ( Illich , 1973 ) .   More work is needed to explore the distribu-   tional properties of recurring turn formats , but at   least we can conclude that every corpus in our   dataset has a subset of recurrent turn formats with   metacommunicative functions whose organization   suggests a power - law distribution . Their impor-   tance in human interaction and by extension human-   computer interfaces can hardly be overstated . To   build flexible conversational agents ( Buschmeier   and Kopp , 2018 ) and localizable conversational in-   terfaces ( AbuShawar and Atwell , 2016 ) , we need a   solid grip both on possibly universal aspects as well   as on the full range of cross - linguistic diversity .   6 Ways forward   Recent work has argued that text - based stochas-   tic models may be running into dimishing returns   ( Bender and Koller , 2020 ) , has stressed the dearth   of relevant conversational data ( Gilmartin , 2021 ) ,   and has pointed to formidable challenges in the   creation of truly interactive systems ( Marge et al . ,   2022 ) . Progress will come from multiple fronts , but   careful and mindful data curation must be a fun-   damental part of it ( Rogers , 2021 ) . This requires   a reconceptualization not just of what counts as   “ NLP work ” , but also of what counts as data . Here   we have shown how linguistically diverse corpora   of co - present conversation may contribute to such   a reconceptualization . Now is the time to pivot   from text to talk ; for few things other than the care-   ful study of interactive language use can bring us   closer to an understanding of how language aug-   ments human cognition and supports fluid and flex-   ible action coordination . This understanding , in   turn , will be critical to make meaningful progress   in any domain that involves human language tech-   nologies and interactive interfaces .   Fortunately there are good ways forward . Here   we summarise three principles to foster a robust   and diversity - aware science of human interaction5621that can underpin engineering solutions , inform lan-   guage models , and contribute to human - centered   applications :   1.Maximise ecological validity . To understand   and model human interaction , start from rich   data that is as close as possible to the natural   habitat of language : co - present social interac-   tion . Audio and video corpora of informal con-   versation are increasingly available for many   languages and provide an excellent starting   point . What such corpora may lack in breadth   they make up for in depth : terabytes of text   can not replace the intricacies of multimodal   communication and fluid participation .   2.Represent interactional infrastructure . Fine-   grained temporal organization , radical inter-   dependency and emergent social action are   characteristics of human interaction that can-   not be reduced to stochastic properties of text .   The timing , co - construction and sequential po-   sitioning of turns is as consequential to their   meaning and interpretation as their form . The   complex and socially distributed nature of se-   quence organization exceeds the powers of   slot filling approaches and requires renewed   attention to interactional tools : the metacom-   municative resources people use to construct   and calibrate mutual understanding on the fly .   3.Design for diversity . To escape the reign of the   resourceful few , use linguistically diverse data   and anticipate a combination of universal and   language - specific design principles . This not   only ensures broad empirical coverage and   enables new discoveries ; it also benefits di-   versity and inclusion , as it enables language   technology development that serves the needs   of diverse communities .   Our aim in this position paper has been to sketch   how these principles , fuelled by insights from the   study of dialogue , linguistic typology , conversation   analysis , and a range of other fields , can provide the   conceptual foundations for novel work on human   language technologies and human interaction .   7 Conclusions   Cross - linguistically diverse corpora of conversation   are increasingly available and can help us to better   understand basic interactional patterns and buildmore flexible , context - sensitive language technolo-   gies . For this to work , it is important to keep both   linguistic diversity and potential universals in sight   ( Sidnell and Enfield , 2012 ; Enfield et al . , 2013 ) . We   can not assume that a given piece of interactional   infrastructure is universal just based on a handful of   languages . Encouragingly , our results suggest that   even relatively small corpora can support robust   generalizations about key aspects of interactional   infrastructure .   One reason this matters is empirical grounding .   Cross - linguistic and comparative work on human   interaction has barely started ( Floyd , 2021 ; Ameka   and Terkourafi , 2019 ) . There may be more uni-   versals of interaction ; equally likely is that there   are more patterns of unrecognized diversity . Both   types of outcomes are important for how they shed   light on the structure of human interaction , and   both have implications for language technology and   human - computer interfaces . More fundamental   work in pragmatic typology is needed — and com-   putational approaches to low - resource languages   provide a promising starting point .   But an equally important reason to consider lin-   guistic diversity in language technology and natu-   ral language processing is one of linguistic agency   ( Di Paolo et al . , 2018 ; Nguyen et al . , 2016 ; Such-   man , 2020 ) . Designing interfaces that allow people   to flexibly wield their preferred communicative re-   sources lessens the hegemony of any one language   and makes technology more inclusive , more hu-   mane and more convivial for a larger range of pos-   sible users ( Munn , 2018 ; V oinea , 2018 ) . Localizing   user interface elements is only a first step ; diversity   in how and when basic interactional structures are   deployed must ultimately be reflected in the design   of conversational user interfaces .   In the rush for better language technology we   should avoid being driven into the arms of only the   best - resourced languages and the easiest - to - get data .   We need language models that are representative of   the actual ways in which people use language , and   conversational interfaces that give people the feel-   ing they do not have to leave their own linguistic   identities at the door . Comparative and computa-   tional work on conversational corpora from a wide   range of languages is crucial to develop a strong   foundational understanding of universals and diver-   sity in interactional infrastructure , and to ensure we   can build the humane and diversity - aware language   technologies of the future.5622Acknowledgements   We thank Calle Börstell , Riccardo Fusaroli , Wim   Pouw , Marlou Rasenberg and Marieke Woensdregt   for helpful comments . Funding for the work re-   ported here comes from Dutch Research Council   grant NWO 016.vidi.185.205 to MD .   References5623562456255626562756285629A Appendix   A.1 Turn - taking : validating analyses   In order to make visible the structure and timing of turn - taking in quotidian interaction , the turn - taking   analysis in § 3 takes all directly adjacent conversational turns in dyadic interactions in which a speaker   change occurs , without regard for type of turn or social action . Stivers et al . ( 2009 ) limited their comparison   to polar question - answer sequences , achieving a form of “ natural control ” to ensure comparability . In   our dataset , the timing of such sequences does not radically differ from the overal timing distribution ,   for a subset of 10 languages for which we are able to automatically identify probable QA - sequences   ( Figure A1 ) . Given the broad - scale comparability of the overall timing distributions ( in grey ) and the   more controlled subset of at least 250 question - answer sequences per language ( in black ) , we conclude   that QA sequences can act as a useful proxy for timing in general ( supporting Stivers et al . 2009 ) , but also   that QA - sequences are not necessary for a relatively robust impression of overall timing .   Analyses of turn - taking sometimes note that some turns are more likely to appear in overlap than others .   In particular , continuers ( also known as acknowledgement tokens ( Jefferson , 1985 ) or backchannels   ( Yngve , 1970 ) ) do not represent a claim to the conversational floor that is as strong as some other   turns ( Schegloff , 1982 ; Levinson , 2016 ) . It is possible that cross - cultural variation in the frequency of   sequentially defined continuers ( as we report in § 4 ) might underlie some part of the observed differences   in turn - taking distributions . However , we feel that to dichotomize our resolutely cross - linguistic dataset   into “ continuers ” versus “ other turns ” would be premature and would risk overinterpreting data that   requires careful qualitative consideration.5630A.2 Frequency and rank in smaller corpora   Turn - level and word - level relations between rank and frequency are sensitive to fluctuations in corpus size ,   so in the body of the paper we provide data for the 22 corpora that feature at least 20 turn formats that   occur at least 20 times . Here we provide the same for a further 21 languages in which there are at least 9   but less than 20 recurrent turn formats ( Figure A2 ) . As in § 5 , turn - level fit lines are computed on the 20 %   of turns that occur > 20 times ( purple ) ; however , fit strongly fluctuates with corpus size and should not be   taken at face value .   B Dataset   B.1 Curation , reproducibility and ethical considerations   The data described and analysed here consists of a range of maximally diverse language resources collected   ( as primary data ) over several decades with the contributions and consent of communities around the   world . Because our aim is to highlight the potential of available language resources and to maximise the   reproducibility of our research , we focus on existing data made available for research purposes in language   archives like the Endangered Language Archive ( ELAR ) , The Language Archive ( TLA ) and Paradisec , as   well as through centralized services like CLARIN and the Linguistic Data Consortium ( LDC ) .   While most of the sourced corpora come from publicly - funded and openly accessible language docu-   mentation or language resource platforms , some corpora are currently unpublished or paywalled . Due   to the diverse set of licensing and publication agreements with the providers of the sourced corpora ,   we are unable to provide direct , unrestricted access to the dataset . To enhance transparency and re-   producibility of the findings presented in the study , we provide an extensive datasheet with details on   motivation , makeup , and processing steps , as well as full information on the larger set of corpora we   have considered . This includes metadata on compilers , durable links to archival copies , and a quantita-   tive overview of key properties of turn duration , timing and translations . The study repository is here :   https://osf.io/zd34r/   The work reported here also comes with ethical considerations . There are at least three points at which   such considerations are important when it comes to the kind of data considered here : data collection ; data   usage ; and implications of any technologies developed on the basis of such data . With regard to the first   point , we only work with corpora collected with the help and involvement of communities who have given5631their informed consent for this data to be recorded , annotated , translated and archived . The other two   points are discussed in detail in Levow et al . ( 2021 ) , who develop a shared task reliant on corpora much   like the ones considered here ( albeit not focusing on co - present conversation ) . With regard to data usage ,   the corpora considered here are only those for which contributors have granted access openly or to all   registered users , usually for research purposes . We can not redistribute the dataset directly , but have strived   to document the process of curation in sufficient detail to enable others to register and access the data   ( Liesenfeld and Dingemanse , 2022 ) . With regard to technological applications , as with any technology ,   there is potential for helpful as well as harmful uses ( Hovy and Spruit , 2016 ) and we side with Levow et   al . ( 2021 ) in stressing the need for computational linguists to work closely with language communities in   maximising helpful uses and minimising harmful ones . As noted above , our supplementary materials also   include details in the form of a data statement ( Bender and Friedman , 2018 ) .   B.2 Inclusions and exclusions   Not all of the available corpora are represented in all analyses presented in the paper or appendices , because   corpora differ in size , precision of annotation , and level of transcription . For instance , some corpora use   segmentation methods that do not precisely link annotations to the corresponding communicative turn .   Others may split annotations in ways that are not clearly documented and that do not seem to correspond   to the turn - level annotation format that is most common across corpora . While such corpora may lend   themselves to various corpus linguistic analyses , incommensurable methods of segmentation means that it   would take considerable additional work to use this data in qualitative and quantitative analyses of timing ,   turn - taking and talk - in - interaction .   The online supplementary materials provide several illustrative examples along with a detailed account-   ing of reasons for exclusions . We are optimistic that in the future , language technology can be harnessed   to improve time - alignment and temporal precision of existing conversational corpora ( Bird , 2021 ; Umair   et al . , 2021 ) . We also hope that annotation procedures can be designed with an eye to staying faithful to   the temporal and sequential structure of the primary data .   While we have collected information on sign language corpora , the set considered here does not include   any of them , as corpora of casual conversation in sign languages are exceedingly rare ( Kopf et al . , 2021 ) ,   and annotation conventions tend to focus on the level of signs rather than utterances , sequences and   timing . Incorporating sign language corpora requires careful work with sign language linguists and deaf   communities to arrive at common and commensurable annotation standards that afford the cross - modal   comparison of interactional structure .   B.3 List of languages and corpora   The table below presents the 63 languages included in the curated dataset , with glottocodes and families   according to Glottolog ( Hammarström et al . , 2021 ) and with citations according to source archives . Full   details , including corpus statistics , sample annotations and links , are in the study repository .   Language ( glottocode ) Family Citation   } Akhoe ( haio1238 ) Khoe - Kwadi ( Widlok et al . , 2007 )   Akpes ( akpe1248 ) Atlantic - Congo ( Lau , 2019 )   Ambel ( waig1244 ) Austronesian ( Arnold , 2017 )   Anal ( anal1239 ) Sino - Tibetan ( Ozerov , 2018 )   Arabic ( egyp1253 ) Afro - Asiatic ( Canavan et al . , 1997c )   Arapaho ( arap1274 ) Algic ( Cowell , 2010 )   Baa ( kwaa1262 ) Atlantic - Congo ( Möller Nwadigo , 2016 )   Br . Portuguese ( braz1246 ) Indo - European ( da Silva , 1996 )   Catalan ( stan1289 ) Indo - European ( Garrido et al . , 2013 )   Chitkuli ( chit1279 ) Sino - Tibetan ( Martinez , 2020 )   Cora ( sant1424 ) Uto - Aztecan ( Parker , 2020 )   Croatian ( croa1245 ) Indo - European ( Kuva ˇc Kraljevi ´ c and Hržica , 2016 )   Czech ( czec1258 ) Indo - European ( Ernestus et al . , 2014)5632Danish ( dani1285 ) Indo - European ( Wagner and Maegaard , 2017 )   Duoxu ( ersu1241 ) Sino - Tibetan ( Chirkova and Han , 2017 )   Dutch ( dutc1256 ) Indo - European ( Taalunie , 2014 )   English ( nort3314 ) Indo - European ( Canavan and Zipperlen , 1996a )   Farsi ( west2369 ) Indo - European ( Canavan et al . , 2014 )   French ( stan1290 ) Indo - European ( Torreira et al . , 2010 )   German ( stan1295 ) Indo - European ( Canavan et al . , 1997b )   Gunwinggu ( gunw1252 ) Gunwinyguan ( Si , 2014 )   Gutob ( bodo1267 ) Austroasiatic ( V oß , 2018 )   Hausa ( haus1257 ) Afro - Asiatic ( Caron , 2016 )   Heyo ( heyo1240 ) Nuclear Torricelli ( Diaz , 2018 )   Hungarian ( hung1274 ) Uralic ( Hunyadi et al . , 2018 )   Italian ( ital1282 ) Indo - European ( Mereu and Vietti , 2021 )   Japanese ( nucl1643 ) Japonic ( Nakamura and Granadillo , 2005 )   Jejueo ( jeju1234 ) Koreanic ( Kim , 2018 )   Juba Creole ( suda1237 ) Afro - Asiatic ( Manfredi , 2016 )   Kakabe ( kaka1265 ) Mande ( Vydrina , 2013 )   Kelabit ( kela1258 ) Austronesian ( Hemmings , 2017 )   Kerinci ( keri1250 ) Austronesian ( Fadlul et al . , 2016 )   Kichwa ( tena1240 ) Quechuan ( Grzech , 2020 )   Korean ( kore1280 ) Koreanic ( Canavan and Zipperlen , 1996b )   Kula ( kula1280 ) Timor - Alor - Pantar ( Williams , 2017 )   Laal ( laal1242 ) Laal ( Lionnet et al . , 2020 )   Limassa ( lima1246 ) Atlantic - Congo ( Winkhart , 2016 )   Mandarin ( mand1415 ) Sino - Tibetan ( Canavan and Zipperlen , 1996c )   Minderico ( mind1263 ) Indo - European ( Carvalho Ferreira et al . , 2011 )   N|uu ( nuuu1241 ) Tuu ( Güldemann and Witzlack - Makarevich ,   2014 )   Nasal ( nasa1239 ) Austronesian ( McDonnell , 2017 )   Nganasan ( ngan1291 ) Uralic ( Brykina et al . , 2018 )   Otomi ( esta1236 ) Otomanguean ( Hernandez - Green , 2009 )   Pagu ( pagu1249 ) North Halmahera ( Hisyam et al . , 2013 )   Polish ( poli1260 ) Indo - European ( P˛ ezik and Dró ˙zd˙z , 2011 )   S. Qiang ( sout2728 ) Sino - Tibetan ( Sims , 2018 )   Saami ( pite1240 ) Uralic ( Wilbur , 2009 )   Sakun ( suku1272 ) Afro - Asiatic ( Thomas , 2014 )   Sambas ( kend1254 ) Austronesian ( Tadmor , 2007 )   Siona ( sion1247 ) Tucanoan ( Martine , 2012 )   Siputhi ( swat1243 ) Atlantic - Congo ( Shah , 2019 )   Siwu ( siwu1238 ) Atlantic - Congo ( Dingemanse and Kanairoh , 2012 )   Spanish ( stan1288 ) Indo - European ( Canavan and Zipperlen , 1996d )   Tehuelche ( tehu1242 ) Chonan ( Domingo , 2019 )   Totoli ( toto1304 ) Austronesian ( Leto et al . , 2010 )   Ulwa ( ulwa1239 ) Misumalpan ( Barlow , 2017 )   Vamale ( vama1243 ) Austronesian ( Rohleder , 2018 )   Wooi ( woii1237 ) Austronesian ( Unterladstetter et al . , 2013 )   Yakkha ( yakk1236 ) Sino - Tibetan ( Schackow , 2014 )   Yali ( pass1247 ) Nuclear Trans New Guinea ( Riesberg et al . , 2015 )   Yélî Dnye ( yele1255 ) Yele ( Levinson et al . , 2019 )   Zaar ( saya1246 ) Afro - Asiatic ( Caron et al . , 2014 )   Zauzou ( zauz1238 ) Sino - Tibetan ( Li , 2017)5633