
Barea SinnoBernardo OviedoKatherine Atwell
Malihe AlikhaniJunyi Jessy LiPolitical Science, Rutgers UniversityComputer Science,Linguistics, The University of Texas at AustinComputer Science, University of Pittsburgh
Abstract
Analyzing ideology and polarization is of criti-
cal importance in advancing our grasp of mod-
ern politics. Recent research has made great
strides towards understanding the ideological
bias (i.e., stance) of news media along the left-
right spectrum. In this work, we instead take a
novel and more nuanced approach for the study
of ideology based on its left or right positions
on the issue being discussed. Aligned with
the theoretical accounts in political science, we
treat ideology as a multi-dimensional construct,
and introduce the first diachronic dataset of
news articles whose ideological positions are
annotated by trained political scientists and lin-
guists at the paragraph level. We showcase
that, by controlling for the author’s stance, our
method allows for the quantitative and tempo-
ral measurement and analysis of polarization
as a multidimensional ideological distance. We
further present baseline models for ideology
prediction, outlining a challenging task distinct
from stance detection.
1 Introduction
Political ideology rests on a set of beliefs about the
proper order of a society and ways to achieve this
order (Jost et al., 2009; Adorno et al., 2019; Camp-
bell et al., 1980). In Western politics, these world-
views translate into a multi-dimensional construct
that includes: equal opportunity as opposed to eco-
nomic individualism; general respect for tradition,
hierarchy and stability as opposed to advocating
for social change; and a belief in the un/fairness
and in/efficiency of markets (Jost et al., 2009).
The divergence in ideology, i.e., polarization,
is the undercurrent of propaganda and misinfor-
mation (Vicario et al., 2019; Bessi et al., 2016;
Stanley, 2015). It can congest essential democratic
functions with an increase in the divergence of
political ideologies. Defined as a growing ideo-
Table 1: Excerpts from news article #730567 in
COHA (Davies, 2012). The first paragraph advocates
for liberalism and the reduction of trade barriers. It also
has a domestic economic dimension. The second para-
graph, on the contrary, advocates for protectionism and
a domestic controls program.
logical distance between groups, polarization has
waxed and waned since the advent of the Ameri-
can Republic (Pierson and Schickler, 2020).Two
eras—post-1896 and -1990s—have witnessed dele-
terious degrees of polarization (Jenkins et al., 2004;
Jensen et al., 2012). More recently, COVID-19, the
murder of George Floyd, and the Capitol riots have
exposed ideological divergences in opinion in the
US through news media and social media. With the
hope of advancing our grasp of modern politics, we
study ideology and polarization through the lens of
computational linguistics by presenting a carefully
annotated corpus and examining the efficacy of a
set of computational and statistical analyses.
In contrast to studying the bias or the stance of
the author of the text via linguistic framing (Kulka-
rni et al., 2018; Kiesel et al., 2019; Baly et al., 2019,
2020; Chen et al., 2020; Stefanov et al., 2020), we231study the little explored angle that is nonetheless
critical in political science research: ideology of
the issue (e.g., policy or concept) under discus-
sion. That is, in lieu of examining the author’s
stance, we focus on addressing the at-issue content
of the text and the ideology that it represents in the
implicit social context. The nuanced co-existence
of stance and ideology can be illustrated in the
following excerpt:
The author is attacking a liberal social and eco-
nomic policy; therefore, the ideology being dis-
cussed is liberal on two dimensions—social and
economic, while the author’s stance is conservative.
Moreover, our novel approach acknowledges that
ideology can also vary within one article. In Ta-
ble 1, we show an example in which one part of an
article advocates for trade liberalism, while another
advocates for protectionism.
Together, author stance and ideology inform us
not only that there is bias in the media, but also
which beliefs are being supported and/or attacked.
A full analysis of polarization (that reflects a grow-
ing distance of political ideology over time) can
then be derived if diachronic data for both au-
thor stance and ideology were available. However,
while there has been data for the former (with arti-
cles from recent years only) (Kiesel et al., 2019), to
date, there has been no temporal data on the latter.
In this paper, we present a multi-dimensional
framework, and an annotated, diachronic, stance-
neutral corpus, for the analysis of ideology in text.
This allows us to study polarization as a state of
ideological groups with divergent positions on a
political issue as well as polarization as a process
whose magnitude grows over time (DiMaggio et al.,
1996). We use proclaimed center, center-left and
center-right media outlets who claim to be objec-
tive in order to focus exclusively and more objec-
tively on the ideology of the issue being discussed,
without the subjectivity of author stance annota-
tion. We study ideology within every paragraph
of an article and aim to answer the following ques-
tion: which ideological dimension is present and to
which ideological position does it correspond to on
the liberal-conservative spectrum.Our extensive annotation manual is developed
by a political scientist, and the data then annotated
by three linguists after an elaborate training phase
(Section 3). After 150 hours of annotation, we
present a dataset of 721 fully adjudicated annotated
paragraphs, from 175 news articles and covering an
average of 7.86 articles per year (excerpts shown
in Tables 1, 2, and 3). These articles originate
from 5 news outlets related the US Federal Bud-
get from 1947-1975 covering the center-left, cen-
ter, center-right spectrum: Chicago Tribune (CT),
Christian Science Monitor (CSM), the New York
Times (NYT), Time Magazine (TM), and the Wall
Street Journal (WSJ).
With this data, we reveal lexical insights on the
language of ideology across the left-right spectrum
and across dimensions. We observe that linguistic
use even at word level can reveal the ideology be-
hind liberal and conservative policies (Section 4).
Our framework also enables fine-grained, quantita-
tive analysis of polarization, which we demonstrate
in Section 5. This type of analysis, if scaled up
using accurate models for ideology prediction, has
the potential to reveal impactful insights into the
political context of our society as a whole.
Finally, we present baselines for the automatic
identification of multi-dimensional ideology at
the paragraph level (Section 6). We show that
this is a challenging task with our best baseline
yielding an F measure of 0.55; exploring pre-
training with existing data in news ideology/bias
identification, we found that this task is dis-
tinct from, although correlated with, labels au-
tomatically derived from news outlets. We con-
tribute our data and code at .
2 Setup
Many political scientists and political psycholo-
gists argue for the use of at least a bidimensional
ideology for domestic politics that distinguishes
between economic and social preferences (Carsey
and Layman, 2006; Carmines et al., 2012; Feld-
man and Johnston, 2014).We start with these232two dimensions while adding a third dimension,
“Foreign”, when the article tackles foreign issues.
Specifically, our annotation task entails exam-
ining a news article and annotating each dimension
(detailed below) along three levels— liberal, con-
servative, neutral —for each paragraph. The neutral
level for every dimension is reserved for paragraphs
related to a specific dimension but either (a) con-
tain both conservative and liberal elements that
annotators were unable to ascertain an ideological
dimension with confidence, or (b) do not portray
any ideology. We additionally provide an irrele-
vant option if a dimension does not apply to the
paragraph. The three dimensions are:
Social :While the (1) socially conservative aspect
of this dimension is defined as respect for tradition,
fear of threat and uncertainty, need for order and
structure, concerns for personal and national secu-
rity, and preference for conformity, its (2) socially
liberal counterpart has been associated with a be-
lief in the separation of church and state, tolerance
for uncertainty and change (Jost et al., 2009).
Economic :Similarly, while the (3) economically
conservative aspect of this dimension refers to moti-
vations to achieve social rewards, power, and pres-
tige such as deregulation of the economy, lower
taxes and privatization (i.e., being against deficit)
spending and advocating for a balanced budget,
its(4) economically liberal counterpart refers to
motivation for social justice and equality such as
issues related to higher taxes on rich individuals
and businesses and more redistribution.
Foreign :After piloting the bidimensional approach
on 300 articles, we find that using only 2 dimen-
sions conflates two important aspects of ideology
related to domestic economy and foreign trade.
Tariffs, import quotas, and other nontariff-based
barriers to trade that are aimed at improving em-
ployment and the competitiveness of the US on
the international market did not map well onto the
bidimensional framework. After consulting several
senior political scientists, we adopted a third di-
mension that dealt with the markets as well as the
relations of the US with the rest of the world. Whilethe(5) globalist counterpart of this dimension ac-
counts for free-trade, diplomacy, immigration and
treaties such as the non-proliferation of arms, its (6)
interventionist aspect is nationalist in its support
for excise tax on imports to protect American jobs
and economic subsidies and anti-immigration.
With the annotated data, we demonstrate quan-
titative measures of polarization (Section 5) and
introduce the modeling task (Section 6) of auto-
matically identifying the ideology of the policy
positions being discussed.
3 Data collection and annotation
Raw data Since polarization is a process that
needs to be analyzed over time (DiMaggio et al.,
1996), our annotated articles are sampled from a
diachronic corpus of 1,749 news articles across
nearly 3 decades (from 1947 till 1974). Articles in
this corpus are from political news articles of Desai
et al. (2019) from the Corpus of Historical Ameri-
can English (COHA, Davies (2012)) covering years
1922-1986. These 1,749 articles are extracted such
that: (1) they cover broad and politically relevant
topics (ranging from education and health to econ-
omy) but still share discussions related to the fed-
eral budget to make our annotations tractable; (2)
balanced in the number of articles across 5 news
outlets with center-left, central, and center-right
ideology (c.f. Section 5): Chicago Tribune (CT),
Wall Street Journal (WSJ), Christian Science Mon-
itor (CSM), the New York Times (NYT), and Time
Magazine (TM). A detailed description of our cu-
ration process is in Appendix A.
The raw texts were not segmented into para-
graphs, thus we used Topic Tiling (Riedl and Bie-
mann, 2012) for automatic segmentation. Topic
Tiling finds segment boundaries again using LDA
and, thus, identifies major subtopic changes within
the same article. The segmentation resulted in arti-
cles with 1 to 6 paragraphs. The average number
of paragraphs per article was 4.
Annotation process Our team (including a polit-
ical science graduate student) developed an annota-
tion protocol for expert annotators using definitions
in Section 2. The annotation process is indepen-
dently reviewed by four political science professors
from two universities in the US who are not authors233
of this paper; the research area of two of them is
ideology and polarization in the US. We will re-
lease our full annotation interface, protocol, and
procedure along with the data upon publication.
We sampled on average 7.86 articles per year for
annotation, for a total of 721 paragraphs across 175
articles. We divided the annotation task into two
batches of 45 and 130 articles, the smaller batch
was for training purposes.
In addition to the political science graduate stu-
dent, we recruited three annotators, all of whom are
recent Linguistics graduates in the US. The train-
ing sessions consisted of one general meeting (all
annotators met) and six different one-on-one meet-
ings (each annotator met with another annotator
once). During initial training, the annotators were
asked to highlight sentences based on which the
annotation was performed.
After the annotations of this batch were final-
ized, the annotators met with the political science
student to create ground truth labels in cases of
disagreement. Then, the three annotators received
the second batch and each article was annotated
by 2 annotators. This annotation was composed
of two stages to account for possible subjectivity.
In stage 1, each annotator worked on a batch that
overlapped with only one other annotator. In stage
2, the two annotators examine paragraphs that they
disagree, and met with the third annotator acting
as consolidator to adjudicate. Tables 1. 3 and 2 are
examples of adjudicated annotation in the data.
Agreement To assess the inter-annotator agree-
ment of stage 1, we report Krippendorf’s α(Hayes
and Krippendorff, 2007) for each dimension for the
135 articles after training and before any discus-
sion/adjudication: economic (0.44), foreign (0.68),
social (0.39). The agreements among annotators
for the economic and foreign dimensions are mod-
erate & substantial (Artstein and Poesio, 2008),
respectively; for social, the ‘fair’ agreement was
noticed during annotation, and additional discus-
sion for each paragraph was then held. Afterwards,
25 more articles were independently annotated and
assessed with an αof 0.53. Although the agree-
ments were not perfect and reflected a degree of
subjectivity in this task, all dimensional labels were
adjudicated after discussions between annotators.
In total, creating this dataset cost ∼150 hours of
manual multi-dimensional labeling.234
Qualitative analysis of text highlights For the
25 articles used in training, all annotators high-
lighted the sentences that are relevant to each di-
mension they annotated. This helped annotators to
focus on the sentences that drived their decision,
and provided insights to the language of ideology,
which we discuss here. On average, 21%–54% of
the sentences in a paragraph were highlighted.
We found entities such as “President" and
"Congress" were the most prevalent in the high-
lights, and they tackled social and economic issues
combined. This is not surprising as it suggests
that when the media quotes or discusses the “Presi-
dent" and “Congress", they do so with reference to
more complex policy issues. In contrast, individual
congresspeople tackled mostly economic or social
issues. This also is not surprising as it suggests
that individual congresspeople are more concerned
with specific issues. Interestingly, “House" and
“Senate" almost always figured more in social is-
sues. This suggest that when news media speaks
about a specific chamber, they do so associating
this chamber with social issues. Finally, party af-
filiation was infrequent and was mostly associate
with social issues.
4 Ideology analyses
The number of paragraphs per dimension in total
is:Economics (558), Social (291), Forign (338) ,
across the 175 articles. In Table 4 we tabulate this
for each of the news outlets. Figure 1 shows the
dimensional label distributions per outlet for each
dimension. Expectedly, the dimensional labels of-
ten diverge from proclaimed ideology of the news
outlet.
We also analyze the percentage of articles that
contain at least one pair of paragraph labels that
lean in different directions; for instance, a para-
graph with a label of globalist (i.e., liberal) in the
foreign dimension and another paragraph with a
label of conservative or neutral in the fiscal dimen-
sion. The percentage of such articles is 78.3%. Out
of these articles, we examine the average propor-
tion of neutral, liberal, and conservative paragraph
labels, and find neutral labels have the highest share
(43.27%), followed by liberal (33.20%) and conser-
vative (23.53%). In Figure 2 (right), we visualize
the percentage of articles where two dimensional
labels co-occur within the same article. The figure
indicates that ideology varies frequently within an
article, showing that a single article-level label will
not be fine-grained enough to capture variances
within an article.
In Figure 2 (left) we also show paragraph-level
label co-occurrence. Unlike the article-level, the
co-occurrences are less frequent and we are more
likely to observe co-occurrences along the same
side of ideology. Still, we see interesting nuances;
for example, on both the paragraph and the arti-
cle level, the economic dimension is often neutral,
and this tends to co-occur with both liberal and
conservative positions in other dimensions.
Lexical analysis To understand ways ideology is
reflected in text, we also look into the top vocab-
ulary that associates with conservative or liberal
ideology. To do so, we train a logistic regression
model for each dimension to predict whether a
paragraph is labeled conservative or liberal on that
dimension, using unigram frequency as features.
In Table 5 we show the top most left-leaning (L)235
or right-leaning (R) vocabulary with their weights.
The table intimately reproduces our annotation of
ideology. For example, words like federal and Sen-
ator allude to the fact that the topic is at the federal
level. The importance of education and labor to
liberals is also evident in the economic and so-
cial dimensions in words like school, education,
and wage. The importance of the topic of taxation
and defense is evident in conservative ideology in
words such as tax, business, missile, and force.
5 Polarization
In this section, we demonstrate how our frame-
work can be used to analyze ideological polariza-
tion, quantitatively. To say that two groups are
polarized is to say that they are moving to opposite
ends of an issue on the multi-dimensional ideologi-
cal spectrum while, at the same time, their respec-
tive political views on ideological issues converge
within a group, i.e. socially liberals become also
economically liberal (Fiorina and Abrams, 2008).
In political science when ideology is multidimen-
sional, polarization is often quantified by consider-
ing three measures that capture complementary as-
pects (Lelkes, 2016): (1) sorting (Abramowitz and
Saunders, 1998) (the extent to which the annotated
ideology deviates from an outlet’s proclaimed ideo-
logical bias); (2) issue constraint (Baldassarri and
Gelman, 2008) (a correlational analysis between
pairs of ideological dimensions); (3) ideological
divergence (Fiorina and Abrams, 2008) (the mag-
nitude of the distance between two groups along
a single dimension). Together these measures de-
scribe changes in the ideological environment over
time: a concurrent increase in all three measures
indicates polarization in media.
Limitations: We use only the fully adjudicated
data and refrain from using model predictions,
since our baseline experiments in Section 6 show
that predicting ideology is challenging. Hence, the
analysis are demonstrations of what our framework
enables , which we discuss at the end of this section,
and the conclusions are drawn for our annotated ar-
ticles only. We group our data in four-year periods
to reduce sparsity.
Measure 1: Sorting We adapt the sorting prin-
ciple of Abramowitz and Saunders (1998) to our
data and investigate the difference between the pro-
claimed ideological bias of a news outlet and the
ideology of annotated articles from the outlet. To
obtain the bias Bof a news outlet j, we average
the ratings of each news outlet across common
sites that rates media bias (Adfontes, Allsides, and
MBFC), yielding: CSM (-0.07), CT (0.15), NYT
(-0.36), TM (-0.4), WSJ (0.32) (c.f. Table 8 in
Appendix B for ratings from each site).
To obtain the overall ideology Iof article i
from outlet j, we take the average of liberal (-1),
neutral (0), and conservative (1) labels across its
paragraphs in all three dimensions. Thus, for each
4-year time period with marticles for outlet j, the
sorting measure would be the absolute distance of
article vs. outlet ideology |avg(I)−B|/B.
In Figure 3, we plot the sorting measure, aver-
aged across news outlets of the same proclaimed
ideological bias. The figure shows that in our sam-
ple of articles, the left-leaning news outlets were
closest to their proclaimed ideological bias mea-
sure over time, whereas the neutral outlets were
more liberal before 1957 and after 1964. The right-
leaning outlets were more conservative at that time
than their proclaimed ideological bias.
Measure 2: Issue constraint This measure
refers to the tightness between ideological dimen-236
sions over time (Baldassarri and Gelman, 2008) so
as to assess, for example, if socially liberal dimen-
sions are more and more associated with economic
liberal dimensions for the news outlets. Concretely,
for each article we derive its ideology along a single
dimension as the average of paragraph annotations
along that dimension. We, then, calculate the Pear-
son correlation between the article ideology of each
pair of dimensions, over all articles from one outlet
in the same period.
Results in Figure 4, again averaged across news
outlets of the same ideological bias, show that for
right-leaning media, the correlation between any
two dimensions in the annotated data are largely
positive (e.g., economically conservative were also
socially conservative) until 1967 or 1970. However,
for proclaimed left-leaning and neutral outlets, the
correlations fluctuates especially when considering
the foreign dimension.
Measure 3: Ideological divergence This mea-
sures the distance between two ideological groups
on a single dimension (Fiorina and Abrams, 2008).
We follow Lelkes (2016) and calculate the bimodal-
ity coefficient (Freeman and Dale, 2013; Pfister
et al., 2013) per dimension over articles from all
news outlets over the same time period. The bi-
modality coefficient ranges from 0 (unimodal, thus
not at all polarized) to 1 (bimodal, thus completely
polarized).
Figure 5 shows the evolution of the ideologi-
cal divergence measure of every dimension. A
bimodality measure assesses whether this diver-
gence attained the threshold for the cumulative dis-
tribution to be considered bimodal. Ideological
distance, as a result, refers to the three bimodal
coefficients. We note, for example, that the foreign
dimension crossed this threshold between 1956 and
1968. This means that proclaimed left-leaning and
right-leaning outlets grew further apart on foreign
issues during this time period.
Discussion Taken together, the graphs indicate
that the years between 1957 and 1967 are the most
noteworthy. During this period, from our sample of
articles, we see that polarization was only present
in conservative news media because it (1) sorted,
as it was significantly more conservative than its
composite bias measure, (2) constrained its issues,
as evidence by high positive correlation values, and
(3) became increasingly bimodal, as the ideologi-
cal distance between their positions and those of
their liberal counterpart on foreign issues increased
over time. While this conclusion applies to only
the set of articles in our dataset, the above analy-
sis illustrates that our framework enables nuanced,
quantitative analyses into polarization. We leave
for future work, potentially equipped with strong
models for ideology prediction, to analyze the data
at scale.
6 Experiments
We present political ideology detection experi-
ments as classification tasks per-dimension on the
paragraph level.
We performed an 80/10/10 split to create the
train, development, and test sets. The development237and test sets contain articles uniformly distributed
from our time period (1947 to 1974) such that no
particular decade is predominant. To ensure the
integrity of the modeling task, all paragraphs be-
longing to the same article are present in a single
split. The number of examples in the splits for each
dimension for the adjudicated data are as follows:
for the economic dimension, we had 450 training,
50 development, and 58 test examples. For the
social dimension, we had 253 for training, 13 for
development, and 25 for testing. For the foreign
dimension, we had 266 for training, 33 for devel-
opment, and 39 for testing.
6.1 Models
Recurrent neural networks We trained a 2-layer
bidirectional LSTM (Hochreiter and Schmidhuber,
1997), with sequence length and hidden size of 256,
and 100D GloVe embeddings (Pennington et al.,
2014).
Pre-trained language models We used BERT-
base (Devlin et al., 2019) from HuggingFace (Wolf
et al., 2020) and trained two versions, with and
without fine-tuning. In both cases we used a cus-
tom classification head consisting of 2 linear layers
with a hidden size of 768 and a ReLU between
them. To extract the word embeddings we followed
Devlin et al. (2019) and used the hidden states from
the second to last layer. To obtain the embedding
of the whole paragraphwe averaged the word em-
beddings and passed this vector to the classification
head.
To find the best hyperparameters we performed
a grid search in each dimension. For the economic
dimension, the best hyperparameters consisted of a
learning rate of 2e-6, 6 epochs of training, a gamma
value of 2, no freezing of the layers, a 768 hidden
size, and 10% dropout. For the social dimension,
the best hyperparameters were a learning rate of
2e-5, 12 epochs, a gamma of 4, no freezing of the
layers, a 768 hidden size, and 10% dropout. Finally,
for the foreign dimension the best hyperparameters
consisted of a learning rate of 2e-5, 6 epochs, a
gamma of 2, no freezing of the layers, a 768 hidden
size, and a 10% dropout.
Focal loss. To better address the imbalanced la-
bel distribution of this task, we incorporated focal
loss(Lin et al., 2017), originally proposed for dense
object detection. Focal loss can be interpreted as a
dynamically scaled cross-entropy loss, where the
scaling factor is inversely proportional to the con-
fidence on the correct prediction. This dynamic
scaling, controlled by hyperparameter γ, leads to a
higher focus on the examples that have lower con-
fidences on the correct predictions, which in turn
leads to better predictions on the minority classes.
Since a γof 0 essentially turns a focal loss into
a cross entropy loss, it has less potential to hurt
performance than to improve it. We found the best
γvalues to be 2 or 4 depending on the dimension.
Task-guided pre-training. We also explored su-
pervised pre-training on two adjacent tasks that
can give insights to the relationship between tasks.
We used distant supervision that labeled the ide-
ological bias of each article according to that of
its news outlet from (Kulkarni
et al., 2018). This procedure allowed us to use the
unannotated articles.
6.2 Results
Table 6 shows the macro F1 for each configura-
tion, averaged across 10 runs with different ran-
dom initializations. The fine-tuned BERT model,
with no task-guided pre-training shows the best
performance across all 3 ideology dimensions. It
is important to note that all the models do better
than randomly guessing, and better than predicting
the majority class. This shows that the models are
capturing some of the complex underlying phenom-
ena in the data. However, the classification tasks
still remain challenging for neural models, leaving
plenty of room for improvement in future work.
TheBERT ft -focal loss setting ablates the ef-
fect of focal loss against a weighted cross entropy
loss. with weights inversely proportional to the
distribution of the classes in the dimension. This238loss helped get a bump in the macro F1 score of
around 0.1 for each dimension compared to an un-
weighted cross entropy loss. However, the focal
loss gave further improvements for 2 of the 3 di-
mensions. Although task-guided pre-training im-
proved the BERT (no fine-tuning) model for 1 of
the 3 dimensions, it led to worse performance than
BERT (fine-tuned). The improvement on the no
fine-tuning setting indicates that there is a potential
correlation to be exploited by the ideology of the
news outlet, but such labels are not that informative
for multi-dimensional prediction. We hope that
this dataset provides a testbed for future work to
evaluate more distant supervision data/methods.
7 Related work
In contrast to our multi-dimensional approach that
examines the ideology of the issue being discussed
instead of the author stance, much of the recent
work in computational linguistics has been ded-
icated to the latter (detection of ideological bias
in news media) while collapsing ideology to one
dimension (Budak et al., 2016; Kulkarni et al.,
2018; Kiesel et al., 2019; Baly et al., 2019, 2020;
Chen et al., 2020; Ganguly et al., 2020; Stefanov
et al., 2020). The proposed computational mod-
els classify the partiality of media sources without
quantifying their ideology (Elejalde et al., 2018).
Other researchers interested in the computational
analysis of the ideology have employed text data
to analyze congressional text data at the legisla-
tive level (Sim et al., 2013; Gentzkow et al., 2016)
and social media text at the electorate level (Saez-
Trumper et al., 2013; Barberá, 2015).
In political science, the relationship between
(news) media and polarization is also an active
area of research. Prior work has studied media
ideological bias in terms of coverage (George and
Waldfogel, 2006; Valentino et al., 2009). Prior
(2013) argues there is no firm evidence of a direct
causal relationship between media and polarization
and that this relationship depends on preexisting
attitudes and political sophistication. On the other
hand, Gentzkow et al. (2016) have established that
polarization language snippets move from the legis-
lature in the direction of the media whereas (Baum-
gartner et al., 1997) have shown that the media has
an impact on agenda settings of legislatures.8 Conclusion
We take the first step in studying multi-dimensional
ideology and polarization over time and in news
articles relying on the major political science the-
ories and tools of computational linguistics. Our
work opens up new opportunities and invites re-
searchers to use this corpus to study the spread
of propaganda and misinformation in tandem with
ideological shifts and polarization. The presented
corpus also provides the opportunity for studying
ways that social context determines interpretations
in text while distinguishing author stance from con-
tent.
This work has several limitations. We only focus
on news whereas these dynamics might be differ-
ent in other forms of communication such as social
media posts or online conversations, and the leg-
islature. Further, our corpus is relatively small
although carefully annotated by experts. Future
work may explore semi-supervised models or ac-
tive learning techniques for annotating and prepar-
ing a larger corpus that may be used in diverse
applications.
Acknowledgements
This research is partially supported by NSF grants
IIS-1850153, IIS-2107524, and Good Systems,
a UT Austin Grand Challenge to develop respon-
sible AI technologies. We thank Cutter Dalton,
Kathryn Slusarczyk and Ilana Torres for their help
with complex data annotation. We thank Zachary
Elkins, Richard Lau, Beth Leech, and Katherine
McCabe for their feedback of this work and its an-
notation protocol, and Katrin Erk for her comments.
Thanks to Pitt Cyberfor supporting this project.
We also acknowledge the Texas Advanced Comput-
ing Center (TACC)at UT Austin and The Center
for Research Computing at the University of Pitts-
burgh for providing the computational resources
for many of the results within this paper.
References239240241242A Data curation
A diachronic corpus is required to measure and ana-
lyze polarization over time (DiMaggio et al., 1996).
We collect and annotate data across a long period
to address the issue of distributional shifts across
years (Desai et al., 2019; Rijhwani and Preotiuc-
Pietro, 2020; Bender et al., 2021) and help build
robust models that can generalize beyond certain
periods.
Additionally, the raw data on top of which we
annotate needs to satisfy the following constraints:
(1) for human annotation to be tractable, the articles
should share some level of topical coherence; (2)
for the data to be useful for the larger community,
the content should also cover a range of common
discussions in politics across the aisle; and (3) the
articles should come from a consistent set of news
outlets, forming a continuous and ideologically bal-
anced corpus.
We start with the diachronic corpus of political
news articles of Desai et al. (2019) which covers
years 1922-1986, the longest-spanning dataset to
our knowledge. This corpus is a subset of news
articles from the Corpus of Historical American
English (COHA, Davies (2012)). To extract top-
ically coherent articles, we investigate the topics
and articles across multiple LDA (Blei et al., 2003)
runs varying the number of topics (15, 20, 30, 50),
aiming to arrive at a cluster of topics that share
common points of discussion and collectively will
yield a sizable number of articles each year from
the same news outlets.
The LDA models consistently showed one
prominent topic—the federal budget—across 5
news outlets with balanced ideology (c.f. Table 8):
Chicago Tribune (CT), Wall Street Journal (WSJ),
Christian Science Monitor (CSM), the New York
Times (NYT), and Time Magazine (TM). Because
federal budget stories touch on all aspects of the
federal activity, this topic appeals to both liberal
and conservative media and thus can provide a good
testing ground to showcase our proposed ideolog-
ical annotation method. In addition to the core
federal budget topic (topic 5 of Table 7), we also
include other topics such as health and education
that are integral parts of ideological beliefs in the
United States, and when discussed at the federal
government level, are typically related to the fed-
eral budget. The top vocabulary of the cluster
is shown in Table 7. In an effort to purge arti-
cles unrelated to the federal budget, we selected
only those that contain words such as “federal” and
“congress”, and excluded those that mention state
budget, and letters to editors. (Note that during an-
notation, we also discard articles that are unrelated
to the federal budget.) After this curation, the total
number of articles is 5,706 from the 5 outlets.
To account for the sparsity of articles in the first
decades and their density in later decades, we nar-
rowed down the articles to the period from 1947
to 1974. We believe this period is fitting because
it includes various ideological combinations of the
tripartite composition of the American government,
Congress and presidency.The total number of
articles in the final corpus of political articles on
the federal budget from 1947 to 1974 is 1,749.
B Proclaimed ideology of news outlets243