
Samee Ibraheem, Gaoyue Zhou,and John DeNero
University of California, Berkeley
{sibraheem,zhougy_99,denero}@berkeley.edu
Abstract
While neural networks demonstrate a remark-
able ability to model linguistic content, cap-
turing contextual information related to a
speaker’s conversational role is an open area of
research. In this work, we analyze the effect of
speaker role on language use through the game
of Mafia, in which participants are assigned ei-
ther an honest or a deceptive role. In addition
to building a framework to collect a dataset of
Mafia game records, we demonstrate that there
are differences in the language produced by
players with different roles. We confirm that
classification models are able to rank deceptive
players as more suspicious than honest ones
based only on their use of language. Further-
more, we show that training models on two aux-
iliary tasks outperforms a standard BERT-based
text classification approach. We also present
methods for using our trained models to iden-
tify features that distinguish between player
roles, which could be used to assist players
during the Mafia game.
1 Introduction
Correct interpretation of language must take into
account not only the meaning of utterances, but
also characteristics of the speaker and the context
in which their utterances are produced. Modeling
the impact of this context on language is still chal-
lenging for NLP systems. For example, differences
in language identification accuracy, speech recog-
nition word error rates, and translation quality have
been observed on the basis of attributes such as a
speaker’s gender, race, dialect, or role (Blodgett
and O’Connor, 2017; Tatman and Kasten, 2017;
Tatman, 2017; Stanovsky et al., 2019). Moreover,
these systems systematically underperform on data
generated by those in the minority, having impli-
cations for the ethics and fairness of using these
technologies.This work explores language used for deception:
a type of speaker context that is particularly chal-
lenging to model because it is intentionally hidden
by the speaker. To do so, we collect and release a
set of records for the game of Mafia, in which each
player is assigned either an honest or a deceptive
role. Then, we develop models that distinguish
players’ roles based only on the text of the play-
ers’ dialog. We describe two auxiliary tasks that
improve classification accuracy over a BERT-based
text classifier.
The novel contributions of this paper include:
1.A methodology for collecting records of on-
line Mafia games and a dataset collected from
460 human subjects,
2.Three classification models that can distin-
guish between honest and deceptive players,
3.An approach for identifying features of the
game dialog text that can be used to help iden-
tify deceptive players during the game.
The task of identifying deception in dialog is far
from solved. Our classification methods, while not
accurate enough to reliably identify deceptive play-
ers in a game, do show that the text of a dialog in
the setting we study does contain information about
the roles of the participants, even when those par-
ticipants are motivated to hide those characteristics
by deceiving the listener. Although the models and
results described in this work only apply to a par-
ticular game setting rather than dialog in general,
the approaches we describe are general in character
and therefore may inform future work on determin-
ing speaker roles from the contents of dialog.
2 Background & Related Work
The game of Mafia is particularly well-suited for
the goal of determining whether the deceptive par-
ticipants in a conversation can be identified from
the contents of their utterances.1582.1 Deception in Language
Humans are a largely collaborative species. How-
ever, people sometimes have goals that incentivize
them to deceive others. Understanding what cues
and interaction styles people adopt when behaving
deceptively will be crucial to both developing au-
tomated detection and a greater understanding of
the complex interactions that people use in decep-
tion and revelation. Previous work indicates that
people struggle with telling apart lies from truth,
especially with deceptive statements (Bond Jr and
DePaulo, 2006). This raises the question of what
strategies deceptive actors use to avoid detection, as
well as what strategies honest actors use to discover
deceivers.
Deception is a difficult topic to study, however,
because of its inherent complexity: multiple people
with different motivations are trying to evaluate
one another, while contending with group obliga-
tions and accusations, over a period of time that
involves planning, taking actions, and responding
to others’ actions. Moreover, there is a distinction
between a falsehood, which is a statement that is
not true, a lie, which is a statement that the speaker
does not believe, and deception, which is the act
of convincing another person to hold a false be-
lief. Whereas falsehoods and lies are properties
of statements, deceptive intent is a characteristic
of the speaker. Therefore, though deceptive speak-
ers may tell falsehoods and lies, they might also
provide truthful statements, and vice versa for hon-
est speakers, thus rendering the truth conditions
of individual utterances as unreliable indicators of
deception. We are interested in how people solve
these dual problems of deceiving and detecting de-
ception, which requires a paradigm wherein we
can observe all agents’ actions and communication
while simultaneously knowing agents’ underlying
incentives and goals. We thus turn to a game with
a rich history of deception research: Mafia.
Previous work on detecting deception from lin-
guistic cues has explored scenarios that either
mimic or are taken directly from real-world inves-
tigations of potentially deceptive actors. Derrick
et al. (2013) showed that deceptive parties take
longer to formulate responses and use fewer words
in the context of chat-based communication. Bur-
goon et al. (2003) similarly found that deceivers
sent briefer chat messages. Fuller et al. (2011)
demonstrated the effectiveness of training classi-
fiers to identify deceptive language in relation tocrimes, and found that word quantity was a particu-
larly useful feature. Fornaciari and Poesio (2013)
also found surface-level features useful in detecting
deceptive statements in a criminal context, specifi-
cally through the investigation of Italian court doc-
uments, while Mihalcea et al. (2013) found that
written lies were easier to detect than transcripts of
spoken ones. Abouelenien et al. (2014) took a mul-
timodal approach to deception detection, finding
that non-contact approaches were able to match or
exceed the performance of those that were more
invasive.
2.2 The Game of Mafia
Researchers have also examined deception in
games, focusing on settings such as Diplomacy or
negotiation over a set of items (Lewis et al., 2017;
Niculae et al., 2015). In addition, there has been
some work exploring the effects of biased voting on
group decision making (Kearns et al., 2009). The
game of Mafia specifically has attracted attention,
and researchers have analyzed data from various
online game communities. Zhou and Sung (2008)
discovered differences between deception across
cultural communities by analyzing data from an
online Chinese Mafia game, Pak and Zhou (2011)
used social network analysis to detect deceivers
using the epicmafia.com website, and de Ruiter
and Kachergis (2018) collected and trained mod-
els on a dataset from the online Mafiascum forum.
Researchers have also studied the game of Were-
wolf, a variant of Mafia. Chittaranjan and Hung
(2010) used audio information to classify decep-
tive parties, while Demyanov et al. (2015) used
video information. Braverman et al. (2008) and
Migdał (2010) developed a mathematical model of
the Mafia game, assuming that all votes are cast
at random, which allowed them to analyze how
mafia and bystander win rates varied with role dis-
tribution in a highly controlled version of the game.
Bi and Tanaka (2016) showed that under certain
conditions, the strategy of mafia pretending to be
bystanders is suboptimal.
Most of the deception-oriented games that have
been studied in the natural language processing lit-
erature provided individual incentives to the play-
ers. Mafia allows for the study of patterns of decep-
tion that arise when incentives are only at the group
level. In addition, whereas using datasets of online
Mafia games presents a rich source of deceptive
language, the complicated rule sets of games on159these forums makes it challenging to isolate spe-
cific strategies that participants use to engage in
and detect deceptive behavior. In contrast to work
using video or audio, we assume that players do not
have access to any audiovisual clues about others’
roles in order to focus on the role of language. This
work takes these factors into account by studying a
controlled environment that nonetheless supports
the use of complex strategies for deceiving and
detecting deceptive behavior.
3 Dataset
A total of 460 English-speaking participants based
in the United States were recruited from Ama-
zon Mechanical Turk using the experiment plat-
form Dallinger. Between 4 and 10 participants
were recruited for each Mafia game: 1 to 2 par-
ticipants were designated mafia, and the rest were
bystanders. Forty-four of these Mafia games are
included in the final analysis. Participants were
paid $2.50 for completing the task, plus bonuses
for time spent waiting for other participants to ar-
rive in a chatroom to begin the experiment. Waiting
was paid at $5/hour.
Upon recruitment, participants were shown a
consent form, per IRB approval, followed by an
instructional video and accompanying transcript
describing how to play the text-based Mafia game
using an interface we developed (see Appendix).
After they completed a quiz demonstrating they
understood the information, they entered a waiting
room until the desired number of participants was
reached. Participants were then assigned a role
(mafioso or bystander) and fake name, after which
they began playing the game.
The game dynamics were as follows. Each mafia
member was aware of the roles of their fellow
mafia members and thus, by process of elimina-
tion, knew the roles of the bystanders. However,
the bystanders did not know the true role of anyone
else in the game. The goal of the mafia was to
eliminate bystanders until the number of mafia was
greater than or equal to that of the bystanders. The
goal of the bystanders was to identify and eliminate
all of the mafia members. Since the incentive struc-
ture was set up such that bystanders benefited from
true beliefs about who the mafia members were,
whereas mafia members benefited from false be-
liefs, bystanders were thus motivated to be honest
actors, whereas mafia members were motivated toM B T
Total #players 87 334 421
Avg #players per game 1.98 7.59 9.57
Std #players per game 0.15 1.21 1.28
Total #utt 770 1392 2162
Avg #utt per game 17.5 31.64 49.14
Std #utt per game 10.45 17.2 24.44
Total #players w/ utt 84 265 349
Perc players w/o utt 0.042 0.958 1
be deceptive actors in the Mafia game. The game
proceeded in phases, alternating between night-
time and daytime (Figure 1). During the night-
time, mafia members could secretly communicate
to decide on who to eliminate, after which they dis-
cretely voted, and the person with the majority vote
was eliminated from the game. If there was a tie,
one of the people involved in the tie was randomly
chosen to be eliminated. During the daytime, every-
one was made aware of who was eliminated during
the nighttime, and then all players could openly
communicate to decide who to eliminate. All the
players then voted publicly, and the person with the
majority vote was eliminated and announced to be
a bystander or mafioso. Thus, during the nighttime
mafia could secretly communicate and eliminate
anyone, whereas during the daytime mafia could
participate in the voting and communication pro-
tocols in the same way as bystanders. The game
proceeded until there was a winning faction accord-
ing to the goals described above.
From these experiments, we collected a dataset
consisting of both mafia and bystander utterances
over the course of each game, as well as the partic-
ipants’ voting behavior. Dataset statistics appear
in Table 1. Figure 2 displays a snippet of the day-
time dialog from one Mafia game. As shown, many
utterances are either social interactions (eg. "hi ery-
body") or discussions about what to do in the game,
such as accusations or comments about voting (eg.
"I bet it’s Mandy...").
Upon further inspection of the data, we can ob-
serve several strategies used by mafia members to
deceive bystanders:160
1.Mafia members may suggest that there is not
enough information to decide on who to elim-
inate, despite their knowledge of everyone’s
roles (eg. “Should we wait to eliminate some-
one?” / “It’s a little early to tell.” / “It’s a shot
in the dark.”),
2.Mafia members may raise suspicion about an-
other player, despite knowing that said player
is a bystander (eg. hmm ok analyzing this
conversation....I think bianca was a little to
flippant in how she was like "sucks to be an-
drew" haha / I’m going to vote bianca. she’s
so casual with life and death),
3.Mafia members may invent a false motive and
assign that motive to another player, despite
knowing that the player is a bystander (eg. It
might be Jonathan Kim... killing off Erin who
accused him "yesterday").
4 Approach
Given our mafia dataset, there are several tasks
that one might address, for example, predicting
participants’ daytime voting behavior or generat-
ing mafia members’ nighttime dialog. As our aim
is to identify deceptive actors, however, we focus
on predicting participants’ roles, i.e. bystander
or mafioso. Due to the asymmetry in the knowl-
edge available to each group and the goals which
incentivize bystanders to increase true belief and
mafia members to reduce it, the bystanders are said
to take on an honest role in the game, whereas
the mafia members take on a deceptive role. To
focus on the relationship between language anddeception, we ignore voting behavior and consider
just the daytime dialog in the game, as only the
mafia members were able to converse during the
nighttime. As shown in Table 1, since most of the
players with no utterances are bystanders, we only
consider players who make at least one utterance
throughout the game.
To investigate whether linguistic information can
be used to identify players’ roles, we train and eval-
uate classifiers that predict the role of a particular
player. Since we have a small dataset, we chose
to fine-tune pre-trained Transformer models rather
than train them from scratch (Vaswani et al., 2017).
To predict the role for a player p, we construct an
input representation r(C, p)of the full game dia-
logCthat encodes the player of interest p. We
develop three approaches which differ in both the
dialog representation function rand the modeling
approach.
4.1 Standard Classification
Our baseline approach uses a standard BERT-based
text classifier (Devlin et al., 2018). To classify
player pvia the full record of the game C, let
boolean variable Mbe true if pis a mafioso.
LetTbe the concatenationof utterances made
byp. We train BERT parameters θto predict
P(M|T;θ).
This approach, which provides as input to the
classifier only the utterances of the player to be
classified, outperformed an alternative representa-
tionr(C, p)that included the entire record of all
utterances by all players.161
4.2 Auxiliary Tasks
Limiting the input representation rto contain only
the speech of the player pbeing classified is not
ideal; correctly interpreting a dialog requires con-
sidering all other players’ statements as well. We
introduce two auxiliary tasks that involve the entire
game dialog C:
1.Given all of the prior utterances, is a bystander
or a mafia member more likely to have pro-
duced the current utterance? ( Utterance Clas-
sification )
2.Given all of the prior utterances, what cur-
rent utterance would a player produce, given
that they are a bystander or a mafia member?
(Utterance Generation )
We develop a BERT-based classification model
for task 1 and fine-tune the GPT-2 language model
for task 2 (Radford et al., 2019). Then, we use each
of these auxiliary models to classify the role of a
particular player pin the game.
4.2.1 Utterance Classification
To classify player pusing the auxiliary task of utter-
ance classification, let boolean variable Sbe true
if utterance Cwas made by a mafioso (rather than
a bystander). Let Cbe the full record of utterances
in the game and Cbe the concatenation of all
utterances C. . . C. We train BERT parameters
θto predict P(S|C;θ). Finally, let Ibe the
set of indices of utterances by player p.Mrelates
toSin that if Mis true, then Sis true for all
i∈I. We thus calculate
P(M|C;θ)∝P(S|C;θ)
N,
where N=|I|.
4.2.2 Utterance Generation
To classify player pusing the auxiliary task of ut-
terance generation, we fine-tune GPT-2 to gener-
ate utterance Cconditioned on prior utterances
Cand the role Sof the speaker that produced
C. From Bayes’ rule, we have P(M|C)∝
P(M)P(C|M).To estimate P(C|M), letC
include all Cfori∈I. We make the simplifying
assumption that P(C|M)∝P(C|M), which
assumes that the utterances made by players other
thanpare independent of the role of player p. Then,
ifMis true, Sis true for all i∈I, and so,
P(C|M;θ) =P(C|C, S;θ).
Using the full dialog C, the final probability of
player pbeing mafioso is calculated as follows:
P(M|C) =P(M)P(C|M;θ)P(R)P(C|R;θ)
(1)162
4.3 Data Processing
To train models for utterance classification (us-
ing BERT) and utterance generation (using GPT-
2), we perform data processing procedures on the
games’ original dataset to create input represen-
tations r(C, p)for each player pand obtain our
training datasets as shown in Figures 3 and 4. The
left side of each figure shows a snippet of a game’s
data, where "Mafioso" and "Bystander" denote the
true roles of the players. The utterances to the right
of each figure are training examples used for fine-
tuning the BERT and GPT-2 models. Structuring
the data in this way provides both the prior context
of utterances and the current utterance that hap-
pened within this context. This not only gives us
the information needed for the auxiliary tasks, but
also provides us with more training examples, as
we only have 44 games and only 421 players in to-
tal, with only 2162 total utterances. Moreover, this
mimics the real game scenario from the bystander
view in that they can only confirm their own role,
but no one else’s, which is the appropriate setting
for us in which to detect deception.
Figure 5 shows the pipeline for using the GPT-2 model to predict players’ roles. Let us assume
that the target player for whom we want to predict
their role is Mafioso 1. From the original game
log on the left, we first perform the data process-
ing scheme from Figure 4 twice, assuming that the
target player is a mafioso (top of Figure 5) and a
bystander (bottom of Figure 5). Using our trained
GPT-2 model, we then obtain a loss for each utter-
ance denoted by L1 through L4. Summing all the
losses for each role, as they denote log probabil-
ities, we calculate P(M|C)andP(¬M|C)via
Equation 1. The target player’s role as predicted
by the model is finally given by comparing the two
probabilities. A similar process is used to calcu-
lateP(M|C)andP(¬M|C)for the utterance
classification BERT model.
5 Experiments
We train three fine-tuned models on the corpus of
Mafia game records and compare their performance
to a random baseline. The specifications for the
baseline and models can be found below, and the
results are shown in Table 2.
5.1 Random Baseline
This random classifier classifies each player as a
mafioso or a bystander with probabilities equal to
the prior distribution of each class, estimated as the
ratio of roles across all training games. This serves
as a baseline to be compared to for all other meth-
ods. In the game setting, this mimics a bystander
player with only public information of how many
mafia and bystanders are in the game.
5.2 Standard Classification
We initialize the model by loading a pre-trained
BERT Base model (12 layers, 768 hidden dimen-
sion size, 12 attention heads). We train with a
maximum sequence length of 256, which is suf-
ficient for our post-processed dataset, setting the
batch size to 16, the learning rate to 1e-5, and the
maximum number of epochs to 25.
5.3 Utterance Classification
We initialize the model by loading a pre-trained
BERT Base model (12 layers, 768 hidden dimen-
sion size, 12 attention heads). We train with a
maximum sequence length of 512, which is suf-
ficient for our post-processed dataset, setting the
batch size to 5, the learning rate to 5e-5, and the
maximum number of epochs to 25.163Avg Rank Avg Rank/Game Accuracy Maf F1-score Bys F1-score
Random 19.0 3.4 0.62 0.26 0.74
Std Class 17.9 3.0 0.69 0.4 0.79
Utt Class 14.5 1.8 0.74 0.50 0.83
Utt Gen 11.4 2.0 0.74 0.50 0.83
5.4 Utterance Generation
We initialize the model by loading a pre-trained
12-layer GPT-2 model with an embedding size of
768. For the dataset, we set the maximum length
of each sentence to be 512, which is sufficient for
our dataset after post-processing. During training,
we set the batch size to be 5 and the learning rate
to be 1e-5. We train the model for a maximum of
100 epochs.
5.5 Metrics
These approaches each estimate a probability
P(M|C)that a player pis a mafioso given the
full record of game texts C. In Mafia, bystanders
do not declare who is and is not a mafioso, but
instead vote each day to eliminate one of the play-
ers. Because the act of voting involves choosing
one player among them all, a natural metric for
evaluating the usefulness of a model is to order
all players pfrom greatest to least P(M|C), their
probability of being a mafioso under the model,
and then to compute the average rank of the true
mafia members. Therefore, the first metric in Ta-
ble 2 is the average ranking of all mafia members
when each player is ranked by P(M|C)across
the entire validation set composed of 5 games. It
is also natural to consider player ranking within a
single game, so we calculate the average ranking of
mafia members within each game as a second met-
ric. Smaller average ranking for mafia members
means that the model is able to assign mafia players
a high P(M|C)relative to bystanders, which is
desired.
In addition, we evaluate the accuracy of the clas-
sifiers and the F1-score for each class. To calculate
these metrics, we first assign the mafioso label to
the top kplayers with the highest P(M|C)and the
rest of the players with the bystander label, where
kis the known number of mafia among all valida-
tion games ( k= 10 in our case). Aside from theranking metrics, these give further information of
the models’ quality after utilizing available game
information.
5.6 Results and Analysis
We trained all models on 39 training games and
evaluated on the remaining 5 validation games. The
evaluation results are shown in Table 2. We have
a total of 49 players in the validation games, but
only considered the 39 players who had spoken
at least one utterance throughout the game when
calculating the metrics. Players with no utterances
are almost exclusively bystanders and are therefore
easy to classify without considering language.
First, we see that it is possible to achieve an
average rank that is smaller than the random base-
line, which demonstrates that there is information
in the dialog about the roles of players, despite
the fact that mafia members seek to hide their role
while conversing. However, standard classification
is comparable to random. Next, we observe that
both models using auxiliary tasks outperform the
standard classifier in rank-based metrics, which
demonstrates that the auxiliary tasks provide useful
inductive bias for the mafia classification task. Ad-
ditionally, the accuracy is similar for all approaches,
including random classification, which indicates
that there is not enough information in the text of
a Mafia game for these models to determine play-
ers’ roles reliably. If the goal of the game were
to guess the role of each player individually, then
always guessing bystander (i.e. the majority class)
would be the best strategy. However, since the
goal for the bystanders is to vote to eliminate a
mafia member each round, the utterance classifica-
tion and utterance generation approaches, which
achieve the lowest average mafia ranking per game
and overall, respectively, are the most favorable.
Note that the precision for the mafia is much
lower than that of the bystanders for all models.
This is due to the usual lack of information avail-164Prompt Generated Utterance
lets kill P1.M:sorry P1 :(
B:hello all
who thinks
P3 is Mafia?M:No i’m a bystander
B:No idea
That sounds
suspicious...M:P6 is mafia
B:Why yall want to eliminate me?
hi team.
Hello!. Hi.M:Who is the mob person?
B:hello
able to predict that any player is a mafioso, which
makes finding the mafia a much harder task than
finding bystanders.
6 Discussion
The decoding ability of the GPT-2 model provides
us a more straightforward way to understand what
the model has learned. Given a prompt sentence,
we can use our fine-tuned GPT-2 model to gener-
ate what a mafioso and a bystander would say. A
few examples are shown in Table 3. From these
examples, we inspect the following features that
the model might be capturing to distinguish be-
tween mafia and bystanders: Feature 1: Referring
to other players. Feature 2: Expressing confusion.
Feature 3: Referring to others for elimination pur-
poses. Feature 4: Asking for suggestions on who
to eliminate.
To confirm that our fine-tuned GPT-2 model cap-
tures some of the above features, we hand-label
these features on 5 training games and 1 valida-
tion game, obtain each player’s feature vector, and
see whether there exists a correlation between the
model’s predicted P(M|C)for validation players
and the similarity of their feature vectors compared
to the training set mafioso and bystander players.
These feature vectors are shown in Table 4, where
each entry denotes the average number of features
per player of each role. As an example, for the
first column, each mafioso player says 2 utterances
having Feature 1 throughout the game on average,
while each bystander player says 1.06 utterances
having Feature 1 on average. We define the first
row as a vector vand the second row as vfor
future references.Feat 1 Feat 2 Feat 3 Feat 4
Mafioso 2.00 0.00 1.30 0.40
Bystander 1.06 0.27 0.65 0.10
F1 F2 F3 F4 D(u) Pred Truth
P0 4 0 2 0 -5.9 0.98 B
P1 2 0 2 0 -2.1 0.93 M
P2 5 0 5 0 -11.7 0.78 M
P3 2 0 2 0 -2.1 0.63 B
P4 4 2 1 1 -4.1 0.47 B
P5 3 0 2 0 -4.0 0.43 B
P6 0 0 0 0 4.2 0.42 B
P7 1 0 1 0 1.0 0.40 B
P8 0 0 0 0 4.2 0.00 B
P9 0 0 0 0 4.2 0.00 B
Table 5 shows the hand-labeled feature vectors
for all 10 players in a validation game (first 4
columns, F1 to F4) ranked by the model’s pre-
dicted P(M|C). We define a metric function
D(u) =∥u−v∥− ∥u−v∥for a validation
player’s feature vector u. The smaller D(u)is, the
closer uis tovthanv, and hence the more mafia-
like they are with respect to players in the training
games. We can see that for players of higher rank,
theirD(u)are negative with larger magnitudes. Re-
ferring to the true labels in the rightmost column
(Mfor Mafioso and Bfor Bystander), the first row
also explains how our model can fail to predict the
true role of some players: even though this player
is a bystander, they act more like the mafia than
other bystanders according to these hand-labeled
features because they are regularly referencing and
accusing other players.1657 Limitations & Potential Risks
We find that we are able to train models to help dif-
ferentiate players with different roles in the game
of Mafia based only on their language use, as well
as to identify features that may distinguish between
these roles. We also noticed that the mafia were
twice as likely to win the Mafia game than were the
bystanders. These findings lead us to believe that
the bystanders may benefit from being provided
hints based on our model’s predictions and iden-
tified features. However, there are several ethical
considerations in regards to using these methods.
First, as our model is trained on this particular ver-
sion of mafia, the specific models trained would
not apply to other cases of deceptive language use.
Applying these models to out-of-domain data, or
even adapting this general approach to new settings,
may yield unexpected results. Our experimental
results only establish the effectiveness of our ap-
proach on the game of Mafia. Future work must
evaluate these approaches on other deception de-
tection tasks before they can be safely deployed in
real-world scenarios. Next, information that may
aid bystanders in detecting deception may also aid
mafia members in being deceptive. Though mafia
members may attempt to use it for this purpose,
because our model is trained to increase true belief,
which is directly in line with the bystander goal
to identify the truth and against the mafia goal to
obscure it, our approach is inherently more useful
to bystanders. However, since the models we eval-
uate are far from perfectly accurate, there is a risk
that users using these models for hints would rely
too much on their output and thereby be misled.
More work should be done to increase the model’s
performance in order to mitigate this risk.
8 Conclusion
How one uses language depends not only on the
content they wish to convey, but also on the context
within which they convey it, and speaker attributes
such as conversational role contribute to such con-
text. In this work, we leveraged an environment for
which roles are explicitly labelled in order to make
progress toward the task of deception detection, an
essential task to protect users in our increasingly
virtual world.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Vael Gates, Aida Ne-
matzadeh, Tom Griffiths, and the Dallinger teamfor their invaluable help in the development of the
Mafia experiment. This material is based upon
work supported by the National Science Founda-
tion Graduate Research Fellowship Program under
Grant No. DGE 1752814.
References166
A Mafia Instructions
Below is a transcript of the instructions that were
provided to participants before playing the Mafia
game in our experiments:
"In this experiment, you will play a version of
the party game "Mafia". You are going to play
the game of Mafia (also known as Werewolf) with
other participants. You are either part of the mafia
(a mafioso) or a bystander. The mafia will know
who is in the mafia, but the bystanders will not.
There will always initially be more bystanders than
mafia. There will be one or more mafia members.
The goal of the mafia is to eliminate the bystanders
one by one until the mafia are equal in number to
them. The goal of the bystanders is to correctly
guess the identity of the mafia and eliminate them
all before the mafia win. There are two phases to
this game, nighttime and daytime; at the end of
each, a participant is eliminated from the game:
1.In the nighttime phase, only the mafia can
converse and decide who they want to elimi-
nate. Specifically, if you are a mafioso, you
will talk in a chatroom, then use a drop-
down menu to select who you want to remove.
Mafia will have 1 minute to do this. If there is
more than one mafioso and the mafia disagree
about who to eliminate, one of the mafia’s
choices will be selected randomly. If you are
a bystander, you will wait out this time, as you
are sleeping during the night.
2.Everyone is awake during the daytime phase.
The participant who was eliminated during
the night will be announced: if you were elim-
inated, you will be sent to the end of the game
and compensated. The remaining participants
will converse (for 2 minutes and 30 seconds)
and decide who to eliminate, where the goal of
the bystanders is to eliminate a member of the
mafia, and the goal of the mafia is to eliminate
a bystander. By the end of this time, everyone
needs to select a name from the drop-down
menu. (If there are multiple mafia, the mafia
will be reminded of each others’ names in sep-
arate text on this page.) The participant with
the most votes will be eliminated, except in
the case of a tie, in which a randomly-selected167vote will be eliminated. The eliminated par-
ticipant and their identity (bystander or mafia)
will be announced, and that participant will be
sent to the end of the game and compensated.
The game will continue, alternating between night-
time and daytime, until either all of the mafia are
removed ( bystanders win! ) or there are equal num-
bers of mafia and bystanders ( mafia win! )"168