
Shiyue Zhang, Benjamin E. Frey, and Mohit Bansal
UNCChapelHill
{shiyue, mbansal}@cs.unc.edu ;benfrey@email.unc.edu
Abstract
Morethan43%ofthelanguagesspokeninthe
world are endangered, and language loss cur-
rentlyoccursatanacceleratedratebecauseof
globalizationandneocolonialism. Savingand
revitalizingendangeredlanguageshasbecome
veryimportant for maintaining the cultural di-
versityonourplanet. Inthiswork,wefocuson
discussinghowNLPcanhelprevitalizeendan-
geredlanguages. Wefirstsuggestthreeprinci-
ples that may help NLP practitioners to foster
mutual understanding and collaboration with
language communities, and we discuss three
ways in which NLP can potentially assist in
language education. We then take Cherokee,
a severely-endangered Native American lan-
guage,asacasestudy. Afterreviewingthelan-
guage’s history, linguistic features, and exist-
ingresources,we(incollaborationwithChero-
keecommunitymembers)arriveatafewmean-
ingfulwaysNLPpractitionerscancollaborate
withcommunitypartners. Wesuggesttwoap-
proachestoenrichtheCherokeelanguage’sre-
sources with machine-in-the-loop processing,
anddiscussseveralNLPtoolsthatpeoplefrom
the Cherokee community have shown interest
in. Wehopethatourworkservesnotonlytoin-
formtheNLPcommunityaboutCherokee,but
also to provide inspiration for future work on
endangeredlanguagesingeneral.
1 Introduction
There are an estimated 6000 to 7000 spoken lan-
guages in the world, and at least 43% of them
are endangered.Throughout history, languages
havenaturallyshiftedanddeclinedintodormancy.
The current speed of language loss, however, is
far beyond “natural”. Some linguists estimate
that between 50% and 90% of languages will beseverelyendangeredordeadbytheendofthiscen-
tury (Austin and Sallabank ,2011). This acceler-
ation of language endangerment owes largely to
cultural, political, and economic marginalization
andtheriseofglobalimperialism. Worldwide,in-
digenous people have suffered from colonization
or conquest and given up their mother tongues in
favor of another language. In order to achieve a
highersocialstatus,indigenouspeoplehavehadto
capitulatetocolonizers’linguisticnorms. Follow-
ingLadefoged (1992), we acknowledge that bur-
dens such as raw material survival outweigh the
moreabstractconcernsofmaintainingalanguage.
In other words, we cannot blame or fault indige-
nouspeopleforgivinguptheirlanguagesinorder
tosecureabetterlifeunderintensesocioeconomic
pressures. As linguists and NLP researchers, we
havetheresponsibilitytoaddressthesepowerim-
balancesandcreateasocietywherespaceexistsfor
indigenouslanguages. Moreover,languagelossis
memoryloss,identityloss,cultureloss,andknowl-
edge loss, and it even affects the health of indige-
nouspeople( Whalenetal. ,2016).
Endangeredlanguagesareevenmoreunderrep-
resented in the NLP literature. Joshi et al. (2020)
point out that more than 88% of the world lan-
guages spoken by around 1.2 billion people are
left behind , i.e., they have been and are still ig-
noredintheaspectoflanguagetechnologies. Blasi
et al.(2021) show that linguistic NLP tasks (e.g.,
morphologyanalysis)aremorelanguageinclusive
than user-facing NLP tasks (e.g., machine trans-
lation). In this information age, NLP techniques
arewidelyappliedontheInternet. MuchInternet
content that we are exposed to daily is processed
or even created by NLP techniques. Hence, the
lack of NLP technology support for endangered
languagesreducesthedegreetowhichusersareex-
posedtothem. Unfortunately,thisexacerbatesthe
problem of linguistic marginalization, as frequent
language exposure is critical to language acquisi-1529tion. Atworst, itcangenerateadownwardspiral:
sincefewerspeakerscreatecontentusingtheselan-
guages, the scarcity of resources will in turn hin-
derthedevelopmentofNLPtechnologies. Onthe
otherhand,themajorityofNLPresearchisbiased
towardshigh-resourcelanguages,neglectsdiverse
linguistictypologies( Joshietal. ,2020),andoften
reliesontheavailabilityoflarge-scaledata. Includ-
ingendangeredlanguagescanhelpdiagnoseNLP
models’ generalizability ( Bender,2011) and push
towardsuniversalanddata-efficientapproaches.
In this work, we address three important steps
ontheroadmapofNLPforlanguagerevitalization:
startingfrom“beforeNLP”to“NLPforlanguage
education” to “language-specific NLP research”.
BeforedivingintoNLPresearch,wefirstsuggest
that NLP practitioners, who are often “outsiders”
ofindigenouscommunities,becomeawareofthree
importantprinciples: understand and respect first ,
decolonize research , and build a community . We
especiallywanttopromote building a community .
Sincefewpeoplearespeaking,learning,orstudy-
ing an endangered language, the knowledge of
each individual, the collected resources, and the
developedmodelsshouldbesharedaswidelyand
sustainablyaspossible. Hence,weneedacommu-
nitytosupportthis(seeSection 2).
Second, language revitalization is an attempt
to reverse the decline of a language ( Tsunoda,
2013). Fundamentally, this requires an increase
in the number of active speakers to bring the lan-
guage back to day-to-day use ( Austin and Salla-
bank,2011). Due to the lack of inter-generation
transmission, language education in school or on-
line is important. We introduce three approaches
forapplyingNLPtechniquesinassistinglanguage
education(Section 3):automated quiz generation ,
automated assessment , and community-based lan-
guage learning . Thelastapproachconnectstoour
previouspointaboutbuildingacommunity.
Next,weintroducethecasestudyofCherokee;
an endangeredNative American language with
only 2,000 fluent first-language speakers remain-
ing. We first review its history (Section 4.1) to
understandhowsocial,political,andeconomicre-
pression have harmed the Cherokee people and
their language. Then, we discuss a few linguis-
tic distinctions of Cherokee (Section 4.2), includ-
ingpolysynthesis,wordorder,etc.,whichcanhelpusdesignlinguisticallyinformedNLPmodels. In
Section5, we review some existing high-quality
Cherokee resources and propose two methods to
enrich resources: community-based resource col-
lection(whichalsorelatestoourpreviouspointof
buildingacommunity)and automatic data mining .
Lastly, based on conversations with some Chero-
kee speakers/researchers, we dive deep into sev-
eralNLPtoolsthatseemadvantageousforcommu-
nitymembersandmaybeabletocreatenewusage
domainsforthelanguage,andwepointoutthekey
challengesoftheirdevelopment(Section 6).
In summary, we propose suggestions to NLP
practitioners, approaches of NLP-assisted lan-
guage education, and directions for Cherokee lan-
guage processing. We hope that our work can in-
creaseawarenessofCherokeeandencouragemore
workonminoritylanguages.
Last but not the least, the authors of this work
come from both the Cherokee community (Ben-
jamin E. Frey) and the NLP community (Shiyue
ZhangandMohitBansal). Prof. BenjaminE.Frey
is a proficient second-language Cherokee speaker
andacitizenoftheEasternBandofCherokeeIndi-
ans. HehasbeenteachingCherokeeandcontribut-
ing to Cherokee revitalization for more than 10
years. Heinitiatedourcollaborationandcontinues
bridging the gap between the Cherokee language
and language technologies. In addition, we have
beentalkingwithsomeotherCherokeecommunity
members, including David Montgomery and Eva
MarieGarroutte. Prof. EvaMarieGarrouttefrom
BostonCollegesaid: “AsacitizenoftheCherokee
Nation, I am very concerned for the preservation
of my tribe’s endangered language and I am con-
vinced that Dr. Frey’s work represents the most
promisingprojectknowntomeforadvancingthis
goal.” Though by no means the views of this pa-
percanrepresentthewholeCherokeecommunity,
our proposals are strongly initiated/motivated by
Cherokee community members and grounded by
NLPpractitioners.
2 Before Diving into NLP Research
WesuggestNLPpractitioners,whoareoften“out-
siders” of the indigenous communities, three gen-
eralprinciplestofollowbeforeconductingNLPre-
searchonendangeredindigenouslanguages.
Understand and Respect First. Meaningful ad-
vances in building speech and language technolo-
giesforunder-resourcedlanguageshingeuponbe-1530ing able to understand those languages’ speaker
communities and their needs. Although the ini-
tial temptation among NLP researchers might be
to dive in with questions about particular compu-
tational tools, that conversation cannot unfold un-
tilthespeakercommunities’morebasicneedsare
met: the need for respect, reciprocity, and under-
standing. It may be tempting to say “this is out-
side the scope of our current research,” yet these
kindsofbehaviorsandassumptionsaretheverybe-
haviorsthatledtothedisenfranchisementofthese
groups. When we ignore someone’s common hu-
manity and assume that our need for control over
thenarrativeandthesituationisgreaterthantheir
need to be seen and respected, we participate in
the same marginalizing and dehumanizing behav-
iors that led to the problem we are purporting to
address. Therefore, it is instrumental that we ad-
dresstheculturalpracticesandsocialnormsofen-
dangered language communities before assuming
weknowhowtopositionourselves,them,andour
researchwithintheircommunities.
Decolonize Research. Decolonizing research is
toplaceindigenousvoicesandneedsinthecenter
oftheresearchprocess( Smith,1999;Datta,2018;
Bird,2020a). As NLP researchers, we are used
tocertainmethodologies. Whenitcomestoques-
tions about endangered languages, it is tempting
forustoformulatethenewproblemsweencounter
aswhatwearefamiliarwith. However,weshould
alwaysquestionourselves: Istheformulationsuit-
ableforthelanguageweconductresearchon? Are
the methodologies we familiar with the only true
ways to solve the problems? Unquestioned focus
on typical methodologies can make us treat lan-
guages as commodities and start to play a “num-
bergame”(e.g.,thesizeofthedata)andforgetthe
realproblem,languagerevitalization,weintendto
solveinthefirstplace( Dobrinetal. ,2007). Atev-
eryresearchstep,itiscriticaltoweightheburden
we put upon the speakers against the benefit that
theresearchcanbringbacktotheircommunity. If
theresearchoutcomeconveysnonewknowledge,
information, or benefit to the community, it is no
differentfrom“taking”indigenousknowledgethat
has occurred over the centuries. That is exactly
why the word “research” is sometimes the direst
(i.e., conjuring up bad memories) word in indige-
nousworld’svocabulary( Smith,1999). Finally,it
is important to carefully deal with copyright and
data governance; meanwhile, we advocate open-sourcedandcommunity-contributedworks.
Build a Community. Fundamentally, we want
toworktogetherwithpeoplefromtheindigenous
communities( Bird,2020a,2021). Itisthemostef-
fective way to foster mutual understanding. We
should communicate with the indigenous people
andgettoknowtheirpriorities. Commonattitudes
need to be fostered, common interests need to be
found,andcommongoalsneedtobesetup,before
performing the research. These all lead to a com-
munity. Wewouldimaginethatthereisanonline
community(awebsite)wherenativespeakerscan
share their knowledge and language learners can
findresourcesandlearnthelanguagetogether(see
Section3). People can share resources and par-
ticipantinmachine-in-the-loopresourcecollection
projects(seeSection 5). NLPresearcherscaneval-
uateandsharetheirmodelsinthiscommunity. En-
tertaininglanguagelearningorresourcecollection
games can be launched. We hope the community
cansupportwideandsustainablecollaborationsbe-
tweenindigenousspeakers,languagelearners,and
NLP practitioners. Compared to local communi-
tiesofthespeakers,thiscommunitywillbegreatly
supported by technologies. A few NLP commu-
nities, e.g., MasakhaneNLP (focusing on African
languages) and SIGEL (special interest group en-
dangeredlanguages),havebeenbuilt. Differently,
thecommunitywepromoteherewillsupportboth
NLPresearchandlanguagelearning. Lastly,com-
paredtoTelegramgroups(weareinafewdifferent
TelegramgroupswithCherokeecommunitymem-
bers), we want to build a more open community
thateveryonecanhaveaccessto.
3 NLP-Assisted Language Education
Sincelittleinter-generationlanguagetransmission
is happening, language education is an essential
requirementoflanguagerevitalization. Computer-
assistedlanguagelearninghasalong-standinghis-
tory (Higgins,1983) and two workshops, BEA
and NLP4CALL, are held for research on apply-
ingNLPforlanguageeducation. Here,wediscuss
threewaysinwhichNLPcanpotentiallyassistlan-
guageeducationofendangeredlanguages.
Automated Quiz Generation. The most direct
way,inwhichNLPcanhelp,isautomaticallygen-
erating quizzes for language learners. Practicing1531and producing the language in questions are crit-
ical to language acquisition ( Gass and Mackey ,
2013). Usually, language instructors manually
design the quizzes, which is tedious and time-
consuming; not to mention, there are not a lot
of instructors for endangered languages. How-
ever, given the available text of endangered lan-
guages, NLP can easily and automatically gener-
ate cloze questions. It can also help find distract-
ing wrong answers that happen in a similar con-
textandthusformmulti-choicequestions( Hilland
Simha,2016;Susanti et al. ,2018). To increase
playfulness, language learning games, e.g., cross-
wordpuzzlesandflashcards,canalsobeautomati-
callygenerated( Rigutinietal. ,2012;XuandInga-
son,2021). Since these applications involve very
basic language processing steps, NLP techniques
canbereliablyandeasilyapplied.
Automated Assessment. Another widely stud-
ied topic is NLP-supported automatic assessment.
Thoughalotofadvancedassessments,e.g.,gram-
mar error correction ( Bryant et al. ,2019), essay
grading (Chen et al. ,2016), are difficult to be
applied for endangered languages, we argue that
some easier assessments are feasible. For exam-
ple, automatic error analysis and template-based
feedback can be provided for language learning
quizzes. Another challenging but feasible assess-
mentistoassessthereadabilityordifficultyoflan-
guagelearningmaterialstoprovidesuitablelearn-
ing plans for learners of different levels. Using
statistic and linguistic features, such as word fre-
quency, morphology or syntactic complexity, etc.,
readabilityanddifficultycanbeautomaticallypre-
dicted(SchwarmandOstendorf ,2005;Vajjalaand
Meurers,2012). However, basic NLP tools, like
POS tagger, dependency parser, morphology ana-
lyzer, need to be developed before these applica-
tions can be realized. The development of these
toolsrequiressmallbuthighly-curateddata( Blasi
etal.,2021).
Community-based Language Learning. Free
online language learning platforms that integrate
automated quiz generation and assessment have
been developed, e.g., Oahpa ( Uibo et al. ,2015).
Taking one step further, we believe that a more
effective approach of supporting endangered lan-
guage education is to build an online and collab-
orative language learning platform, following the
human computation technique ( Von Ahn,2008).
When using technologies to assist in language re-vitalization,weoftenfaceadilemma. Ontheone
hand, due to the endangerment, there is not a lot
ofresourcesavailableanditisveryexpensive(in
termsoftime,effort,andcost)tocollectresources
fromspeakers. Ontheotherhand,machinesstrug-
gletoreach“useable”and“helpful”performances
without a decent amount of training data. Human
computation aims at combining human and com-
putertosolveproblemsneitherofthemcouldsolve
alone (Von Ahn,2008;Garcia,2013). The most
famousexampleisWikipediawhereInternetusers
contribute their knowledge together, and incredi-
bly high-quality content has been created. Other
successful cases are Duolingo and Tatoeba. Both
areforlanguagelearnerstotranslatewebtextand
rateeachother’stranslations. Then,thetranslated
text can serve as learning materials and training
dataforNLPmodels. However,Tatoebaonlyhas
an English interface, and mixes languages on the
same site, making it hard to find peer learners of
under-resourcedlanguages. ThoughDuolingohas
language-specific sites, it supports 23 languages
so far. Therefore, how to make use of collabo-
rativelanguagelearningplatformsforendangered
languagesis abig challenge. Nonetheless, we be-
lievethatitisapromisingpathtotakeforteaching
endangered languages to the young generation in
thisinformationage.
4 The Cherokee Language
Starting from this section, we illustrate the situa-
tionofendangeredlanguagesthroughtheexample
of Cherokee. We first review its history and lin-
guistics. In the NLP area, we hardly get to know
the languages and often let the model learn statis-
tical patterns automatically from the data. How-
ever, it is critical to have basic knowledge of the
languagewhencontributingtoitsrevitalization.
4.1 History of the Cherokee People and Their
Language
Tribal Sovereignty. Before encountering Euro-
peans, American Indians were already governing
themselves. By drafting treaties with indigenous
nations,thecolonialpowersimplicitlyrecognized
their sovereignty. Those treaties are still valid to-
day,andtribalpeoplesareverymuchoperatingas
sovereign nations, separate from the US ( NCAI,
2020). There are three federally recognized na-
tionsofCherokeepeople: CherokeeNationofOk-
lahoma (CN), United Keetoowah Band of Chero-1532keeIndians(UKB),andEasternBandofCherokee
Indians (EBCI). Traditional Cherokee homeland
covered parts of what are now eight US states.
EBCI is composed of those Cherokees who were
able to remain in their homeland. CN is largely
comprised of the descendants of those who were
forcibly removed to Indian Territory along the in-
famous Trail of Tears in 1838 ( Perdue and Green ,
2007),whiletheUKBiscomposedlargelyofthose
whoseancestorschosetoremovethemselveswest
oftheMississippi. Althoughthethreenationsare
politically independent, they all descend from the
same Cherokee people, and maintain common in-
terests,culturalelements,andlanguage.
The Language and its Dialects. Cherokee is the
onlysurvivingmemberoftheSouthernIroquoian
language family, which have separated from the
Northern Iroquoian languages about 4,000 years
ago(Julian,2010). JamesMooneyidentifiedthree
main dialects of Cherokee: the Overhill dialect,
the Underhill dialect (has died out), and the Mid-
dle, or Kituwah dialect. The Overhill dialect is
primarilyspokeninOklahoma,andtheMiddledi-
alect is predominantly spoken in North Carolina
today. Although according to UNESCO, both di-
alects are endangered, Cherokee is comparatively
well-reported among American Indian languages.
This is partially due to its writing system known
as the 85-character Cherokee syllabary. It was in-
ventedintheearly1820sbySequoyah( Britannica,
2021). TheCherokeeshaveanewspaperwrittenin
their own language: the Cherokee Phoenix. The
Phoenix, alongside the Cherokee New Testament,
formed cornerstones of the Cherokee language in
the1800sonwhichmanycurrentlanguagepreser-
vationsandarchivingprojectsrest.
Language Endangerment. Cherokee was ro-
bustly spoken until around the 1930s. The pri-
mary factor being responsible is the US gov-
ernment’s “civilization” policy, which aimed to
remove American Indians’ cultural distinctions
(Spring,2016). Federal boarding schools were
created on the model of military institutions by
RichardH.Prattunderthephilosophyof“killthe
Indian,savetheman”( Pratt,2013). AmericanIn-
dianchildrenweresenttoresidentialschoolstobe
educated in how to live in ways more similar to
their white contemporaries. School overseers cut
theirhair,forcedthemtoabandontheirtraditionaldress, and punished them for speaking their tradi-
tional languages. Beyond the trauma, when they
returned to communities, banks, post offices, fac-
tories, and grocery stores were all controlled non-
locally. People working in them either no longer
spokeCherokeebecausetheywerenotfromChero-
keecommunitiesorbecausetheiremployerswere
notCherokeespeakers. Thistransitioncontributed
tothedeclineofthelanguageindailyuse,untilthe
first generation grew up with only English as the
languageofthehomearound1950s( Gulick,1958;
Frey,2013). Recently, the larger project of lan-
guage revitalization, of which this paper is a part,
endeavorstoreturnthelanguagetoregularday-to-
dayuseintheCherokeecommunities.
4.2 Cherokee Linguistics
Polysynthetic. Cherokee, like most American
Indian languages, is polysynthetic. This means
thatwordsareprimarilycomposedofarootwhose
meaningismodifiedbymultipleprefixesandsuf-
fixes. The word ᎨᎦ,gega, can be divided up: g-,
-e-,-ga. The g-prefixindicatesthatthesubjectof
the verb is 1st person singular while the -gasuf-
fixindicatesthattheactionhappensinthepresent
tenseandtheaspectisprogressive. Theverbroot
-e-conveystheideaofmotion. Thesimplestverb
forminCherokeewillcontainatminimumaroot,a
pronominalprefix, andatense/aspectsuffix. One
oft-notedaspectofCherokeegrammarisitsclassi-
ficatorysystem,whereinverbswithdirectobjects
must conjugate to indicate the physical shape of
the direct object. The verb “I have,” for instance,
couldappearinanyofthefollowingways: Agiha
(Ihave(solid)), Agineha(Ihave(liquid)), Agwvya
(Ihave(long&rigid)), Agina’a(Ihave(flexible)),
Agikaha(I have (animate)). Cherokee also has
pre-pronominal prefixes that can specify the geo-
graphicallocationofparticularevents,suchas wi-
(translocative),whichindicatesthattheactionwill
happenatadistanceawayfromthespeaker,and di-
(cislocative), which indicates the action will hap-
penatadistanceapproachingthespeaker.
Word Order. Word order in Cherokee is de-
pendent on the larger pragmatic context in which
the sentence appears, with new information or
timeframes occurring before the verb and old
orestablishedinformationoccurringpost-verbally.
Subject-objectagreementishandledlargelyviathe
dual-argument pronominal prefixes. E.g., in “I
see it,” ᏥᎪᏩᏘᎭ (tsigowatiha ), the pronominal1533prefix tsi-indicates 1st person singular (“I”) act-
ing on 3rd person singular (“it”). In ᎠᎩᎪᏩᏘᎭ
(agigowatiha ),wechange tsi-toagi-,whichmeans
3rdpersonsingularactingon1stpersonsingular.
Person & Number. Although English has only
two categories of number: singularand plural,
Cherokee has a third, dualcategory. Therefore, a
verb in Cherokee can be conjugated in first, sec-
ond,orthirdpersonandspecifiedforeithersingu-
lar, dual, or plural subjects. Dual and plural pre-
fixesinthefirstpersonmustthenbefurthersubdi-
vided by clusivity, yielding 1st-person dual inclu-
sive(you&I)orexclusive(she/he&I),1st-person
pluralinclusive(allofus)orexclusive(they&I).
The second person can inflect for dual (you two)
orplural(youall). Cherokeedoesnothaveathird-
persondualform,andspeakersusuallyusetheplu-
ralformwhenreferringtotwothirdpersons.
Verb-centric. Cherokee is very verb-centric, and
verbs comprise 75% of Cherokee ( Feeling,1975).
Cherokeenounsaredividedintorootnouns(have
no verbal inflection attached to them) and de-
rived nouns (carry verbal morphology). Simi-
larly, Cherokee adjectives can be distinguished
from verbs in that their forms cannot carry the
tense/aspect morphology typical of actual verbs.
Thus, to say someone is skinny, ᎤᎴᏐᏓ(ulesoda)
carries the pronominal prefix u-, indicating 3rd
personsingular,while ᎤᎴᏐᏓ ᎨᏒᎢ (ulesoda gesv’i )
markspasttensebyaddingaseparatecopula(“to
be”)thatcarriesthetense/aspectsuffix -v’i.
Evidentiality. Cherokee is also marked by a sys-
tem of evidentiality (indicating whether one has
firsthandknowledgeofpastevents,orifoneisre-
porting on hearsay). E.g., one might say ᎠᎦᏍᎬᎢ
(agasgv’i), “it was raining (and I have firsthand
knowledge of this)” vs. ᎠᎦᏍᎨᎢ(agasge’i), “it
was raining (from what I understand).” Interest-
ingly, this phenomenon applies regardless of the
assumedtruthofthestatementinquestion.
Phoneme. Cherokee’s phoneme inventory is,
likeotherIroquoianlanguages,almostcompletely
bereftofbilabialsounds. Itentirelylacksthe porb
phonemes,alongwith f/v,θ/ð,andany rsound. It
hassixvowels: a,e,i,o,u,and v,andaregenerally
pronouncedwithcontinentalvalues,asinSpanish,
exceptfor v. Consonantinventoryissmall,atonly
13, and most will be familiar to English speakers.
Themainexceptionisthevoicelessalveolarfrica-
tive ì,likelymorefamiliartoIcelandicspeakers.5 Cherokee Language Resources
The availability of language resources is not only
important for language education but also de-
termines the development of NLP technologies.
Cherokee is categorized into “The Scraping-Bys”
byJoshi et al. (2020), which means it has some
amount of data but solid movements still need to
betakentoincreasetheawarenessofthelanguage.
Existing Resources Online. It is not easy to lo-
cate a lot of Cherokee resources on the Internet,
comparedtootherhigh-resourcelanguages. Here,
wepointtoafewplaceswherehigh-qualityChero-
keeresourcesforlanguagelearningorNLPmodel
training can be found: (1) Cherokee-English Dic-
tionaryhasonlineCherokee-Englishdictionaries,
a transliteration tool, a grammar guide, and a few
Cherokeetextoraudiocorpora; (2)CherokeeNa-
tion websitecontains Cherokee online classes,
learning materials, fonts and keyboards, etc. (3)
UNCCherokeeProgramwebsitehasUNCChero-
kee class resources and pointers to external re-
sources; (4) Cherokee Language Github group
gathers a lot of Cherokee text and audio data,
as well as initial attempts for speech synthesis
and some other NLP tools. (5) The Cherokee
Phoenixpublishes all-Cherokee issues as well
assomebilingualarticleswithCherokeeaudios.
(6)Wereleasedaround17KCherokee-Englishpar-
allel data ( Zhang et al. ,2020).In addition,
CherokeeWikipediaisavailablebutitscontentis
noisy. A Cherokee resource catalog can be built
upinthefutureforeasierlocatingresources.
Community-based Resource Collection. Be-
sides existing resources, we suggest collaborative
resource collection, which can be integrated with
the community-based language learning platform
we introduced in Section 3. A simple feature of
thisplatformcouldbeadropboxwherepeoplewho
are willing to contribute their resources can drop
in the files they have.The back-end program
can support any kind of data processing based on
thecontributor’srequestandpermission. Then,the1534resourcescanbesharedbackwiththecommunity
aslanguagelearningandmodeltrainingresources.
Second, for more complex data annotation tasks,
likePOStagging,dependencyparsing,wesuggest
setting up game with a purpose (GWAP) applica-
tionsonthiswebsite. GWAPisintroducedbyLuis
Von Ahn ( Von Ahn,2006;Von Ahn and Dabbish ,
2008)whoisalsothefounderofDuolingo. Onefa-
mousexampleishis ESP game (VonAhnandDab-
bish,2004) which formulates the image recogni-
tiontaskasagame. Followingthisidea,NLPprac-
titionerscandesigndiversegamesontheplatform
to increase the fun and engagement of language
learning and resource collection. In addition, this
platform will focus more on what kind of mate-
rials the Cherokee community members consider
important to preserve instead of what the NLP re-
searchersfindmostvaluable.
Automatic Resource Mining. AsNLPpractition-
ers, we should try to make the most use of com-
puters for collecting resources automatically. A
lot of automatic data mining methods have been
proposed to mine monolingual or bilingual text
from the noisy web or Wikipedia ( Guo et al. ,
2018;ArtetxeandSchwenk ,2019;Schwenketal. ,
2019;Wenzek et al. ,2020;Schwenk et al. ,2021;
Arkhangelskiy ,2019). Thoughtheminedtexthas
manyerrorsornoises,previousworksdemonstrate
that neural NLP models are surprisingly good at
using noisy data for training. However, some ad-
ditionalNLPcomponents,likelanguageidentifier
and multilingual embeddings, need to be devel-
oped to support the data mining. For instance,
to mine Cherokee-English parallel text, we will
needtomapEnglishandCherokeesentencestothe
samerepresentationspacetocomputetheirsimilar-
ity. However,existingtoolsofgettingmultilingual
sentence embeddings, like LASER,do not sup-
port Cherokee, and Cherokee is not related to or
sharingscriptswithanysupportedlanguages. But,
given the existing Cherokee-English parallel data
(Zhangetal. ,2020),wecanre-trainthesetoolsand
have Cherokee being supported. Note that these
automatic text miners can start with both crawled
webtextandOCR-processedtext(Section. 6.2).
6 NLP Tools for Cherokee Language
Processing
Based on our conversation with a few Cherokee
speakers,theyagreethatsomeNLPtoolsaregoodto have and hold the potentials to be useful in
Cherokeelanguagerevitalization. Thus,someini-
tialattemptshavebeenmadebytheCherokeeLan-
guage Github group and us ( Zhang et al. ,2020,
2021). Hence, we dive deep into several specific
NLP tools for Cherokee language processing in
thissection. AndforanyNLPtoolwedevelop,we
wanttoevaluateitbytheCherokeespeakers, and
we suggest open-sourcing it for free usage. Con-
necting to our “build a community” proposal, we
hopethatNLPmodelscanalsobesharedandused
widelyandsustainablyinthecommunity.
6.1 Machine Translation.
Ideally, a good machine translation (MT) system
can automatically translate the big amount of En-
glishtexttoCherokee;oritcanassisthumantrans-
lators. Dr. DavidMontgomery,acitizenofChero-
keeNationandaCherokeelanguagelearner,com-
mented on MT: “It would be a great service to
Cherokee language learners to have a translation
tool as well as an ability to draft a translation of
documentsforfirst-languageCherokeespeakersto
editaspartoftheirtranslationtasks. Ifthesetools
can be made to work accurately, they would be
transformative for the Cherokee language.” Pre-
viously, we collected parallel text and developed
an MT online translation demo between Chero-
keeandEnglish( Zhangetal. ,2020,2021). How-
ever, our system can translate fragments of the
source sentence but make major mistakes , which
isfarfrombeingpracticallyuseful. Thefirstchal-
lengeofMTdevelopmentisthelackofdata. Au-
tomatic data mining can help enrich MT training
data (Section 5). But we still need high-quality
anddiverseevaluationdatabecauseexistingeval-
uation sets ( Zhang et al. ,2020) are from limited
domains(themajorityistheBible). Recently,Flo-
res101,anMTevaluationbenchmarkcovering101
languages, has been created ( Goyal et al. ,2021).
ThoughithasnotyetcoveredCherokee,wehope
itcanhappeninthefuture.
Thesecondchallengeisprocessingandproduc-
ing Cherokee text. Cherokee has rich morphol-
ogy(seeSection 4.2). OneCherokeewordcanbe
translated into one English sentence. Intuitively,
we would think subword tokenization ( Sennrich
etal.,2016;Kudo,2018)ishelpful. However,pre-
viously, we ( Zhang et al. ,2020) showed that ap-
plyingsubwordtokenizationforEnglishtoChero-
kee translation is harmful. We argue that it is be-1535
cause we processed Cherokee text in its syllabary
rather than in transliterated Latin script, however,
morphemes are easier to be learned from the lat-
ter. E.g.,in ᏣᏆᏛᏏᏗᏒ,tsaquadvsidisv (whenIwas
growing up), the prefix ts-marks relative clauses,
butᏣistsa. Wesuspectthatcharacter-levelgener-
ation(inLatinscript)wouldworkbetterforChero-
kee. Additionally, Cherokee has flexible word or-
der that is often determined by whether the infor-
mation is new or old in relation to the larger dis-
course (Section 4.2). Thus, document-level trans-
lations are more reasonable than typical sentence-
leveltranslations.
6.2 Optical Character Recognition.
The majority of Cherokee text is in the format of
manuscripts or books, so as many other endan-
gered languages ( Joshi et al. ,2020;Bustamante
etal.,2020). Thoughhumanscanreadthem,they
arenotmachine-readable,whichrestrictstheflex-
ibilityoftheiruse,e.g.,automaticallycreatinglan-
guage learning quizzes. Optical character recog-
nition(OCR)( Smith,2007)canhelpextractplain
text from PDFs or images. Fortunately, existing
OCR tools, like Tesseract-OCRand Google Vi-
sion OCR API, support Cherokee and have de-
cent accuracy. However, OCR accuracy is highly
influenced by image quality. If the image has
a noisy background or the text is surrounded by
colorfulpictures(whichoftenhappensinchildren
books),theOCRaccuracywilldropsignificantly.
To prove this, we create two evaluation sets
from Cherokee books (including Cherokee New
Testament, children books, Cherokee narratives):
(1)Originalhas 20 images, and each image is
onecompletepagefromabook;(2) Screenshot is
obtainedbymanuallyconductingscreenshotsand
cutting out text from the 20 images, i.e., remov-
ing background noises. For each image in two
sets,wemanuallyannotatethecorrespondingtext.
Table1shows the results of Tesseract-OCR and
GoogleVisionOCRAPI.BothOCRtoolsachieve
significantly lower error rates on the Screenshot
set than on the Originalset, which demonstrates
the importance of cleaning the images. Tesseract-
OCR shows better performance than Google Vi-
sionOCR,especiallyitisbetteratdetectingword
boundaries. Although ways to improve image
qualityareavailable,aneasy-to-usetoolneedto
be developed. OCR post-correction methods can
alsobeapplied( Rijhwanietal. ,2020).
6.3 Speech Recognition and Synthesis.
Automaticspeechrecognition(ASR)( Poveyetal. ,
2011) can help language documentation, though
indigenouscommunitymembersmaypreferunas-
sistedtranscription( Prud’hommeauxetal. ,2021).
Moreover, ASR holds the potential to automati-
callytranscriptaudiodataandthusenrichtextcor-
pus. A good amount of Cherokee audio data can
be found from the “Cherokee Voices, Cherokee
Sounds” radio, Cherokee Phoenix, and recorded
meetings. ASRcanautomaticallytranscriptthese
audios to produce valuable Cherokee text data.
Recently, models that are first pre-trained on au-
dio data and then finetuned on audio-text data
have shown great advantages in performing ASR
(Baevski et al. ,2020). Especially, Conneau et al.
(2020) pretrain and finetune a model on 53 lan-
guages and release XLSR-53 (supports ASR for
53 languages). It shows reasonable generalizabil-
ity to unseen and low-resource languages. This
shedslightondevelopingASRforendangeredlan-
guages.
Hence, we test its performance for Cherokee
ASR. Using the audio-text data open-sourced
or shared privately by Michael Conrad, we build
two ASR models: (1) audio to phonetic text, (2)
audio to syllabic text. See more details in Ap-
pendixA.1. As shown in Table 2, we get surpris-
inglygoodperformances,especiallyfortheaudio-
to-syllabic-text model.This is very promising,1536
especially when knowing the fact that more self-
training strategies can be applied, e.g., pretrain
thespeechencoderwithCherokeeaudiodata,and
more audio-text training data can be compiled.
Text-to-speech synthesis (TTS) is more difficult
to develop than ASR; nevertheless, following the
pretrain-then-finetune paradigm, TTS models for
extremelylow-resourcelanguageshavebeenintro-
duced(Xuetal.,2020).
6.4 Tokenization and Morphology Parsing.
Tokenizationisanessentialpre-processingstepof
most NLP models, and it is related to morphol-
ogy parsing. Subword tokenization has become
de facto(Sennrich et al. ,2016;Kudo,2018). It
segmentsawordintofrequentsubwords,andsub-
wordsaresupposedtoalignwithmorphemes. Bet-
ter alignment with morphemes can lead to better
downstream performance ( Bostrom and Durrett ,
2020), while current subword tokenization meth-
ods struggle to perform well in morphologically
richlanguages( AmrheinandSennrich ,2021).
Here, we evaluate how well subword tokeniza-
tion can learn real morphemes for Cherokee. We
train two subword tokenizers,Unigram LM
(Kudo,2018)andBPE( Sennrichetal. ,2016),and
one morphology parser, Morfessor ( Smit et al. ,
2014), on our previous MT training set ( Zhang
et al.,2020). Instead of using the original syl-
labic text, we transliterate text into Latin script to
make it easier to learn morphemes. We collect
gold(expert-labeled)morphemesof372Cherokee
words from Cherokee Narratives ( Feeling,2018).
Then,weusethepretrainedtokenizersorparserto
tokenize these 372 words and evaluate the align-
mentbetweensubwordsandgoldmorphemes. As
shown in Table 3, subwords are poorly aligned
withgoldmorphemes. Nonetheless,UnigramLM
(Kudo,2018)demonstratesbetterabilityofinduc-
ingmorphemes,whichisconsistentwiththeobser-
vation made by Bostrom and Durrett (2020). We
think better representation methods need to be in-troduced for Cherokee, and the labeled data from
Feeling(2018)canprovidesupervision.
6.5 POS-Tagging and Dependency Parsing.
More basic NLP tools like POS tagger and de-
pendency parser are under-developed for Chero-
kee. These tools can not only support the devel-
opment of other NLP tools but also be used to
predict the readability of language learning mate-
rials (Section 3). Moreover, data for these tasks
canserveaslanguagelearningmaterialsforunder-
standing Cherokee linguistics. Though unsuper-
vised methods have been proposed ( Stratos et al. ,
2016;Kim et al. ,2019), usually small but high-
quality labeled data, like Universal Dependencies
(Nivre et al. ,2016), is needed ( Blasi et al. ,2021).
Therefore, data annotation by experts is required
and community-based data collection strategies
canbeapplied(Section 5). Moreover,theparallel
English data and English tagger/parser can assist
the annotation on the Cherokee side, which will
alsoproduceEnglish-Cherokeeword/phrase-level
alignments as by-products. These alignments are
valuable Cherokee language education resources,
e.g.,askingstudentswhenyouhave“structureX”
inEnglish,whatisthecorresponding“structureY”
inCherokee?
7 Conclusion & Future Work
Inthiswork,wediscusshowNLPcanhelprevital-
ize endangered languages. We first suggest gen-
eral principles to NLP practitioners and propose
ways of NLP-assisted language education. Espe-
cially,wepromotebuildinga(online)community
that support collaborative language learning, re-
sourcecollection,andknowledgesharing. Second,
weconductacasestudyforCherokee(aseverely-
endangeredNativeAmericanlanguage). Afterre-
viewing Cherokee history and linguistics, we pro-
posetwomethodsofenrichingCherokeeresources
anddiscussthedevelopmentsofseveralNLPmod-
elsthatpeoplefromtheCherokeecommunityare
interested in. We hope our work can encourage
future work to think and plan the path forward
forotherendangeredlanguages. Inthefuture, we
hope to broaden our collaboration to even more
Cherokeecommunitymembersandbuildmeaning-
ful relationships with tribal governments, so that
we can develop more useful applications through
NLP techniques for supporting Cherokee revital-
ization.15378 Broader Impact Statement
Thecontentofthispaperisbasedonandinspired
by our practice in Cherokee Language Revitaliza-
tion. Theconclusionsandsuggestionsmayormay
notgeneralizetootherendangeredlanguages. For
example,sinceCherokeehasitsownsyllabaryand
can be written down, we are interested in speech
recognition for audio transcription. Even though
some methods can directly translate audio to text
of another language, we do not want to skip the
transcription step. However, for some oral lan-
guages, they may want to prioritize translation
overtranscriptiontotacklethetranscriptionbottle-
neck (Bird,2020b). On the other hand, our posi-
tion is influenced by Crystal(2014), who thinks
using electronic technology is important for lan-
guage revitalization. Therefore, a lot of our pro-
posals,like“buildinganonlinecommunity”,may
haveanassumptionthatcomputersandtheInternet
have been or can be widely accepted and used in
the indigenous community. However, it may not
betrueineveryindigenouscommunity.
Acknowledgments
Wethankthereviewersfortheirhelpfulcomments.
WethankArchikiPrasadandZhiyuanTangforpro-
viding guidance on developing ASR models. We
thankMichaelConradforprovidingCherokeeau-
dios and transcriptions. We thank David Mont-
gomery and Eva Marie Garroutte for providing
their statements. We thank the Kituwah Preserva-
tion and Education Program (KPEP), the Eastern
Band of Cherokee Indians, and the Cherokee Na-
tion. ThisworkwassupportedbyNSF-CAREER
Award 1846185, ONR Grant N00014-18-1-2871,
NSF-AI Engage Institute DRL-2112635, and a
Bloomberg Data Science Ph.D. Fellowship. The
views contained in this article are those of the au-
thorsandnotofthefundingagency.
References153815391540
A Appendix
A.1 Data and Implementation Details of ASR
(1) audio to phonetic text: Given the audio, the
modeloutputstextshowingitspronunciation,e.g.,
Sǔ:dáli(means“six”). ItfollowsUchihara’sMod-
ified Community Orthography ( Uchihara,2013).
(2) audio to syllabic text: Given the audio, the
model outputs text showing the Cherokee syl-
labary,e.g., ᏑᏓᎵ(means“six”).
We split our ASR data into training, develop-
ment, and testing sets. Table 4lists the statistics.
Itcanbeseenthatwehavemoredatafortheaudio
to syllabic text model, which probably causes its
goodperformanceshowninTable 2.
We follow the ASR recipe provided by Hug-
gingface’s Transformers(Wolf et al. ,2020) to
finetunethepretrainedXLSR-53model( Conneau
etal.,2020). Specifically,weuselearningrate=3e-
4,epoch=15,mask_time_prob=0.01. Weruneachexperimentfor3timesandreporttheaverageper-
formanceonthetestingsetinTable 2.1541