
Ife Adebara
Deep Learning and
Natural Language Processing Group
The University of British Columbia
ife.adebara@ubc.caMuhammad Abdul-Mageed
Deep Learning and
Natural Language Processing Group
The University of British Columbia
muhammad.mageed@ubc.ca
Abstract
Aligning with ACL 2022 special Theme
on “Language Diversity: from Low Re-
source to Endangered Languages", we dis-
cuss the major linguistic and sociopolitical
challenges facing development of NLP
technologies for African languages. Situ-
ating African languages in a typological
framework, we discuss how the particu-
lars of these languages can be harnessed.
To facilitate future research, we also high-
light current efforts, communities, venues,
datasets, and tools. Our main objective
is to motivate and advocate for an Afro-
centric approach to technology develop-
ment. With this in mind, we recommend
what technologies to build and how to
build, evaluate, and deploy them based on
the needs of local African communities.
1 Introduction
Language is the foundation on which commu-
nication rests, allowing us to share ideas and
interact with one another. Cultures are built on
this foundation. We cannot understand, nurture,
or help a culture thrive without understanding
and nurturing the language carrying it. Lan-
guage, in turn, is incubated and evolved by
culture (Fourie, 1995). Each culture is thus
naturally best expressed using the language in
which it evolved, which encodes knowledge
about people, their traditions, wisdom, envir-
onment, and how they interact with the sum
of the concepts that belong to their own cul-
ture. Technology is an element of culture that
arguably both shapes andis shaped by it. Tech-
nology interacts in complex ways with other
elements of culture such as gender, race, and
class. Natural language processing (NLP) tech-Figure 1: African languages discussed in this paper.
A high quality version is in Figure F.1 (Appendix).
nologies are no exception, and play an increas-
ingly important role in today’s world. Mod-
ern NLP technologies, however, have primar-
ily been developed in Western societies. As
such, they often function within contexts of
values, norms, and beliefs that reﬂect these so-
cieties and serve their needs. On the other hand,
the very methods employed to develop most of
these technologies and the knowledge on which
they rest also derive from the same Western-
Centric approaches. This poses challenges to
the extension and use of these technologies in
communities with different social fabrics that
speak different languages. The scale of this
problem is huge, because the majority of the
world’s 7000+ living languages (Eberhard et al.,
2021) are not NLP-supported. Apart from per-
haps two dozens of popular languages, most
languages of the world are under-resourced, in-
digenous, and/or endangered. Most African
languages fall within this category and are the
focus of this paper (Figure 1).
Our goal is to discuss the major linguistic and3814sociopolitical challenges facing development of
NLP technologies for African languages.In
doing so, we both motivate and advocate for
an Afrocentric approach to technology devel-
opment where what technologies to build and
how to build, evaluate, and deploy them arise
from the needs of local African communities.
We start by typologically situating African lan-
guages and providing illustrating examples as
to what makes them challenging from a compu-
tational linguistics perspective (§ 2). Next, we
discuss consequences of the literacy situation
in Africa on NLP (§ 3). We then further explain
why the classical binary approach to technology
development of feature engineering vs.end-to-
endsolutions familiar to most NLP researchers
is not ideal for the African context (§ 4). We
follow by data quality (§ 5). To facilitate future
work, we also point to ongoing community ef-
forts, venues, and datasets (§ 6). We conclude
in § 7.
2 Why Typology Matters
Although it has been argued that the best
way to achieve cross-linguistically useful NLP
is to leverage ﬁndings of typological re-
search (Bender, 2016), most NLP work remains
Indo-Eurocentric in terms of algorithms for pre-
processing, training, and evaluation. This is a
mismatch to the fact that every NLP approach
requires either explicit or implicit representat-
ive linguistic knowledge (O’Horan et al., 2016;
Ponti et al., 2019; Bender, 2016). Knowledge
of linguistic typology can indeed be very use-
ful for both language-speciﬁc and language-
independent NLP (O’Horan et al., 2016), in-
cluding for African languages. This knowledge
can be useful for determining which languages
may be treated together (e.g., in multilingual
models) and/or which methods are best suited
for a language-speciﬁc task (e.g., a method can
be deemed potentially useful if it has been ap-
plied successfully on a language with a similar
typology). To illustrate what typological in-
formation can concretely mean for African lan-
guages, it may be useful here to list a number of
the most notable typological features prevalentin African languages across several language
families including Afro-Asiatic, Austronesian,
Niger-Congo, Nilo-Saharan, Indo-European
andCreole . These features include use of tone,
open syllables, vowel harmony, splitting verbs,
serial verb construction, reduplication, use of
very few or no adjectives (closed class of ad-
jectives (Segerer, 2008)), and a large number
of ideophones. We will discuss three of these
features which we judge as largely absent from
most of the top 10NLP-popular languages.
We provide a list indicating presence of one
or more of these features in over 100African
languages in Appendix Table B.1.
2.1 Tone
Phonemic tone is characteristic of many
African languages, with 80% of these lan-
guages being tone languages (Hyman, 2003;
Creissels et al., 2008). This includes most
languages of the Niger-Congo family, except
Swahili, Wolof, Serer, Cangin, and Fulani
which are not tone languages. All Nilotic and
Khoisan languages and many Afroasiatic lan-
guages are also tonal. A smaller number of
languages, including Somali and many Bantu
languages, are tonal accent languages, in which
a distinctive or demarcative accent is expressed
by a toneme of high pitch (Clements and Rial-
land, 2007).
Tone can occur both at the lexical and gram-
matical levels. Lexical tones are a difference
in pitch that distinguishes one lexeme from an-
other. In Yorùbá, for instance, lexical tone is
responsible for the differences in meaning in
the following: igbá (calabash ,basket ),igba
(200),ìgbà (time),ìgbá (garden egg ), and
igbà (rope). Grammatical tone, on the other
hand, distinguishes one grammatical category
from another. In Akan, a language with both
lexical and grammatical tone, grammatical tone
distinguishes habitual and stative verbs as in:
Ama dá ha ‘Ama sleeps here’ andAma dà
ha‘Ama is sleeping here’ . Grammatical tone
is also used to indicate case in some Bantu
languages (Creissels et al., 2008; König et al.,
2008), as a deﬁnite marker, for inﬂectional or3815derivational purposes, or to code spatial rela-
tions (Creissels et al., 2008).
Two approaches have been adopted in the
orthographies of African tone languages: no
tone marking ortone marking .No Tone Mark-
ing. Hausa, spoken in Niger and Nigeria, has
grammatical tone but adopts a no tone mark-
ing approach in its orthography. This results
in ambiguities that may not be resolved in con-
text as in jáá tàfí ‘He went’, jáà tàfí
‘He may go’, and jà tàfí ‘He should go’
(Cahill, 2019). It is worth mentioning that no
tone marking makes little difference in tone
languages with few minimal pairs. NLP sys-
tems designed for a tone language without tone
marking may therefore suffer from issues with
ambiguity, if contextual information is not ad-
equate for disambiguation or if many minimal
pairs exist in the language.
Tone Marking. Languages that mark tone
may adopt a shallow marking (Yorùbá) or deep
marking approach (Cahill, 2019; Bird, 1999a)
by using diacritics, punctuation marks, or let-
ters to indicate tone (Cahill, 2019). A shallow
marking approach uses the surface level tone
after phonological rules (such as assimilation)
that change the representation of tones have
been applied. The implication of this type of
approach is that the same word will have differ-
ent tone representations in different contexts. In
a low-resource scenario, therefore, each word
will have fewer occurrences and some contexts
may not be seen in training data (Bird, 1999b)
(i.e., data sparsity). For languages that adopt
a deep marking approach, a word would have
the same tone, orthographically , in every con-
text. However, the speech token representing
the same word will vary, thus creating am-
biguity at the speech front. Although adopt-
ing a shallow or deep marking approach may
not have signiﬁcant implications on languages
with few tone phonological rules, the degree
of shallow-to-deep marking may increase am-
biguity for languages with many phonological
rules (Bird, 1999b,a). Tone-marking can also be
partial orexhaustive .Partial Tone-marking.
Some African languages such as Yorùbá adopt
a partial tone marking approach with diacrit-
ics. Yorùbá has three distinctive tones - high,mid and low tones - but only represents the
high tone with the acute symbol and the low
tone with the grave symbol in its orthography.
The mid tone is not marked and vowels without
diacritics unambiguously indicate the presence
of the mid tone. Rangi, a language spoken
in Tanzania, marks only high tone on nouns
while Akoose, a language spoken in Cameroon,
marks high tone and contour tones but leaves
low tones unmarked (Cahill, 2019). Karaboro,
spoken in Burkina faso, marks grammatical
tones in plurals using a word ﬁnal hyphen
as in: sààpjé ‘Rabbit’ and sàápjé- ‘Rab-
bits’. Exhaustive Tone-marking. In exhaust-
ive tone-marking, every tone bearing unit is or-
thographically marked for tone as in Dschang,
spoken in Cameroon (Bird, 1999b).
Furthermore, a higher number of distinctive
tones increases ambiguity. In Dan, a language
with ﬁve distinctive tones, the following can oc-
cur:gba(caterpillar) ,gba(shelter) ,gba
(ﬁne) ,gba(roof) , andgba(antelope) (Clem-
ents and Rialland, 2008). For another example,
Yorùbá has three distinctive tones where each
monosyllabic sequence of sounds can have up
to three pitch contrasts and a bi-syllabic can
have2pitch contrasts.
Recommendations. (1) For speech applic-
ations, there exists a plethora of unexplored
research questions to answer with regard to
the implication of tone on text-to-speech and
text-free speech processing (Lakhotia et al.,
2021). We therefore call for empirical stud-
ies that investigate the inﬂuence of tones in
text-to-speech, text-free speech processing, and
universal speech processing (Yang et al., 2021).
Since tone is absent in Indo-European lan-
guages where most recent speech work is situ-
ated, we expect this to be a fruitful direction.
(2)For text applications, tone will be relev-
ant for natural language understanding (NLU)
tasks including but not limited to part of speech
tagging (POS) ,text classiﬁcation , and natural
language generation (NLG) tasks such as ma-
chine translation . For many of these applica-
tions, it is not clear how tone would interact3816with system performance. For example, we
do not know where to keep and where to re-
move tone (if at all). For example, we ﬁnd that
while removing tone has negligible impact on
Bambara!English MT, it has signiﬁcant negat-
ive impact on Yorùbá !English (see Table A.2
in Appendix). We also do not necessarily know
what the best ways to encode (and decode) tone
information are. (3)For work involving lan-
guages with shallow tone marking at the or-
thographic level, we recommend budgeting for
collection and preparation (e.g., annotation) for
sizeable datasets (to alleviate data sparsity). In
absence of large datasets, knowledge of the ﬁ-
nite phonological rules of a language can also
be exploited for generating data for downstream
tasks. (4)Orthographic conventions should not
be taken as a good indication of the functional
load (i.e., information load) of tone in a lan-
guage, for there are many non-linguistic (e.g.,
political) reasons for employing a particular or-
thographic convention (Cahill, 2011). Hence,
NLP researchers should do due diligence as
to understanding how tone works in a given
language. (5)Punctuation marks may be tone
indicators, and care needs to be taken on how
these are pre-processed.
2.2 Vowel Harmony
V owel harmony is a phonological pattern in
which vowels within a given domain agree in
properties such as tongue position or lip round-
ing (Hyman, 2003). It restricts the possibilities
of vowels that can co-occur (Archangeli and
Pulleyblank, 2007). Different languages ad-
opt different types of vowel harmony. Three
types of vowel harmony that are unique to
African languages have been recorded in the
literature (Clements and Rialland, 2007): (i) ad-
vanced tongue root (ATR) harmony, (ii) cross
height ATR harmony, and (iii) reduced ATR har-
mony. ATR harmony occurs when some vowels
have the [ ATR ]feature and others have the
[+ATR ]feature. Within a word, all non-low
vowels agree in [+ATR ]or[ ATR ]features.
With cross height ATR, [+ATR ]in mid vow-
els require [+ATR ]in high vowels and vice
versa. The reduced ATR, on the other hand, oc-
curs in languages with only one mid vowel and[ ATR ]mid and high vowels shift to [+ATR ]
in the context of [+ATR ]high vowels (Clem-
ents and Rialland, 2007).
Recommendations. (1) Since vowel har-
mony is largely absent in most Indo-European
languages, knowledge of vowel harmony is cur-
rently underexplored in NLP. Such a know-
ledge can be useful for tasks such as POS
tagging since tokens with the same part of
speech tend to have similar harmonies. (2)
Automatic spelling checkers can also exploit
information about vowel harmony since certain
co-occurrences of vowels are barred by phono-
logical rules of vowel harmony.
2.3 Serial Verb Constructions
Serial verb constructions (SVC) involve two or
more verbs that combine as a whole without any
indication of dependency or any conjunction
between them (Creissels et al., 2008; Déchaine,
2008). Languages with SVC use serial verbs to
encode events that are usually encoded as single
verbs in Indo-European languages. This poses a
unique problem when creating/evaluating cross-
lingual embeddings and in applications such
asdictionary creation . For instance translating
from English to Yorùbá, we have the follow-
ing examples: borrow - ‘Gbà àwìn (receive
credit)’, believe - ‘Gbà gbó

(receive hear)’,
pinch - ‘Já l’ éèékáná (cut with ﬁnger-
nails)’ so that a single English verb is a serial
verb in Yorùbá. When these words are used
in sentences, they may have intervening words
as in: Gbà á l’ áawìn (receive 3SG-O on
credit) ‘borrow it’ ,Gbà á gbó

(receive 3SG-
O hear) ‘believe it’ ,Já a l’ éèékáná (cut
3SG-O with ﬁngernails) ‘pinch it’ . In Africa,
serial verb constructions are very common in
Kwa (e.g. Ewe) and Western Benue-Congo lan-
guages (e.g. Yorùbá). They have also been re-
cognized in the North Khoisan language !Xun.
Recommendations. (1) Given how pervas-
ive word embedding models are in most NLP
applications, we recommend investigating how
embeddings accounting for SVC can be de-
veloped. Similarly, SVC will have bearings
in how (cross-lingual) embeddings are evalu-
ated. For example, researchers may need to
create dictionaries customized to African lan-3817guages. (2)ForPOS tagging , decisions need to
be made on what approach to take in treating
such constructions. (3)Research investigating
the extent to which SVC affects performance
across different tasks needs to be explored. For
example, this can be valuable for parsing and
MT.
3 No Literacy, No NLP
NLP for high resource languages (HRL) bene-
ﬁts from the level of literacy NLP researchers
have in these languages. Most researchers usu-
ally have literacy beyond high school in one or
more of the languages they work on. In Africa,
however, with very complex multilingual so-
cieties, many educated Africans cannot read
nor write their Indigenous languages.These
people do not have basic linguistic knowledge
in their languages either. For example, many
people do not know which words are nouns
or verbs (Cahill, 2001). For context, more
than2;000languages have been reported in
Africa - about 1=3of all the languages in the
world (Hammarström, 2018) - making many
African communities truly multilingual. As a
result, it is not uncommon for a child to be
exposed to multiple Indigenous languages be-
fore reaching school age. This is especially
the case in families where the father, mother,
and grandparents all speak different languages
(which may, in turn, be different from the lan-
guages spoken in the communities they live
in). People who receive formal education - the
sole way people become literate - thus attain
only partial literacy in one or more African lan-
guage(s) which may not even be their mother
tongues. Many others have no knowledge of
any Indigenous language, and are only literate
in a foreign language (Cahill, 2001; Ouane and
Glanz, 2010).
As seen in Table C.1 in the Appendix, out
of the 56countries in Africa, only 17countries
have an Indigenous language as a national lan-
guage (although in 14of these 17countries, a
foreign language is the main ofﬁcial language).
Furthermore, the countries that give any ofﬁcial
status to Indigenous languages, tend to restrictsuch a status to those languages belonging to
majority speakers.For example, in Nigeria,
only three out of 512languages are ofﬁcially re-
cognized as regional languages; Ghana uses 10
of its 73Indigenous languages as institutional
languages; Swahili is the only ofﬁcial Indigen-
ous language in Tanzania out of 118others; 12
of61languages in Kenya have some ofﬁcial
status; only 12of20Indigenous languages in
South Africa are institutional languages. This
challenging situation is the result of poor lan-
guage policies, which we now turn to.
Language policy. Language policy determ-
ines which languages are used in education,
media, commerce, and almost every domain
controlled by government. With most Afric-
ans educated in English, French, Portuguese
or majority African languages, most African
languages (those without any ofﬁcial status) are
rarely used or used only at home (Petzell, 2012;
Foster, 2021; Ouane and Glanz, 2010). In coun-
tries where an Indigenous language has ofﬁcial
status, governments and implementing bodies
only pay lip service to these policies (Kaschula
and Kretzer, 2019). In addition, lack of trained
personnel and adequate educational resources
in Indigenous languages, as well as rarity of
teachers sufﬁciently proﬁcient to offer Indigen-
ous language courses, make policies difﬁcult to
implement (Trudell, 2018; Kaschula and Kret-
zer, 2019). Furthermore, in many schools, Indi-
genous languages are referred to as vernaculars
and are prohibited. Violation usually attracts
ﬁnes, and even corporal punishment in some
cases. English and other foreign languages re-
main the prerequisite for scientiﬁc and technolo-
gical development, and a key to social prestige
and power. Students who do not pass examina-
tions in these foreign languages cannot continue
studying beyond elementary school (Foster,
2021; Petzell, 2012; Mohr, 2018). Effect of
these currently implemented policies is visible
in the NLP situation of African languages. Lan-
guages ofﬁcially recognized within their coun-
tries have more resources and tools for NLP
than those that do not. For instance, all African
languages with a diversity index (Joshi et al.,38182020) greater than zero are either ofﬁcial na-
tional, regional, or educational languages or are
languages of wider communication (Eberhard
et al., 2021). We provide more details about
available resources of different types (labelled,
unlabelled, parallel, and raw) and tools in Sec-
tion F (Appendix).
Recommendations. Partial and lack of liter-
acy or knowledge of Indigenous languages has
signiﬁcant negative impacts on NLP in African
languages. Therefore, (1)we include in our
concept of a grand challenge the development
of language policies that facilitate literacy in In-
digenous African languages. Literacy improve-
ment takes time, and policies that teach Indigen-
ous languages only for brief periods in element-
ary school need to be reformed. (2)We also
recommend the implementation of policies that
require use of Indigenous languages in media,
government, and other domains. (3)Adequate
funding needs to be allocated to develop ped-
agogical materials, train teachers, and provide
teaching aids in order to facilitate the imple-
mentation of these policies. Simply put, without
improvement of literacy in African languages,
we do not see a ﬂourishing future for African
NLP .
4 A Tale of Two Approaches
There are two main approaches for developing
NLP systems. We discuss each of these vis-
a-vis the situation for African languages here,
giving relevant recommendations.
Feature engineering . Feature engineering re-
quires domain knowledge, which is lacking
for many African languages due to the afore-
mentioned literacy situation. This negatively
impacts use of written African languages in
many domains of human endeavor, let alone
NLP research. Weak literacy simply means un-
availability and inaccessibility of linguists, an-
notators, language experts, and computational
linguists with expertise in African languages.
It also manifests itself in lack of grammars,
primers, teaching aids, and dictionaries (Cahill,
2011). As it turns out, grammatical informa-
tion is either fully lacking or under-documented
for almost half of Africa’s languages. This
makes Africa the second least known contin-ent (after Oceania, dominated by the New
Guinea area) (Güldemann, 2018). In Appendix
Table F.2, we list available linguistic resources
for all African languages we could trace.
Deep Learning Approaches. A major bottle-
neck in the development of end-to-end deep
learning NLP systems for African languages is
the paucity of machine-readable data (Adda
et al., 2016). Deep learning systems for
high-resource languages are usually fed ever-
growing amounts of data that are abundant on-
line and via several other avenues in today’s
connected society. Without these type of (inter-
active) data, it is challenging to develop NLP
models for real-world use. In particular, mod-
els that are endowed with the implicit and ex-
plicit knowledge embedded in language are
hard to build (at least by current technologies)
without large volumes of data derived from di-
verse contexts. Many African languages lack
the environment from which these types of
machine-readable data can be collected. So-
cial media, which is a venue for data collection
for many high-resource languages, are often
not widely used for African languages. In fact,
most Africans post to social media in foreign
languages rather than in Indigenous African
languages (Malatji, 2019).One reason be-
hind this issue is unavailability of keyboards
for Indigenous languages. Most keyboards, for
example, do not support symbols for represent-
ing tone and some other grammatical features.
Partial or complete lack of writing literacy is
another reason. A third reason is related to
the lack access to smart machines and internet
connectivity.
Furthermore, countries such as Nigeria
where ofﬁcial status is given to a handful of
Indigenous languages, still document ofﬁcial
activities in foreign language exclusively. Me-
dia organizations that often read the news in
a foreign language as well as local languages
also archive only the English news and discard
those in Indigenous languages. All such prac-
tices stiﬂe opportunities for developing large
datasets for African languages, effectively caus-
ing African NLP to lag behind. If archived,
data for many Indigenous African languages3819can facilitate development across a wide host
of speech and language tasks, including text-to-
speech and machine translation. Collectively,
these compounded issues mean there are only
few (and often smaller) online communities that
contribute to web fora, Wikipedias, and other
platforms where data are growing in large-to-
massive amounts for high-resource languages.
This is evident in the diversity index for African
languages offered by Joshi et al. (2020).
According to Joshi et al. (2020) who sum-
marized the digital status and ‘richness’ of
languages in the context of data availability,
542African languages are left-behinds .
That is, these languages have exceptionally
limited resources that will make it probably
impossible to lift them up in the digital
space. A total of 26African languages are
scraping-bys and are in a better position
than the left-behinds . However, even
these are said to require organized awareness
and strong data collection effort with most
of these languages having no labelled data-
sets. Only nine African languages are in
thehopefuls category, with a small set of
labeled datasets, researchers, and language sup-
port communities. A single African language
(i.e., Afrikaans) is in the rising-stars cat-
egory with a strong web presence and a thriving
cultural community online (although with in-
sufﬁcient efforts in labeled data collection). We
offer a summary of the diversity index for 578
African languages in Table F.6 in the Appendix.
Recommendations. (1) We recommend that
daily engagements in education, commerce,
media, and government which are otherwise
archived only in foreign languages (see Table
C.1), be archived in Indigenous languages as
well. These would comprise valuable sources of
labelled and unlabelled machine-readable data
for NLP, let alone painting a more equitable
and representative picture of African languages.
(2)Humans and machines complement each
other’s strengths, so we recommend stronger
interactions between NLP experts and theoret-
ical linguists or knowledgeable native speak-
ers when developing resources and models for
African languages. (3)Funding should also
be allocated to theoretical linguists and lan-guage experts, along with machine learning
and NLP experts, to aid this work. (3)For
African languages with available linguistic re-
search, it has been found that certain POS, mor-
phological, named entity, and dependency in-
formation can be accurately retrieved automat-
ically by using tone, vowel harmony, or even
syllable structure patterns (Adegbola, 2016).
These approaches may aid faster development
of POS taggers, lemmatizers, NER, or even de-
pendency parsers. (4)When developing NLP
pipelines for African languages, removal of
numbers and non-alphanumeric symbols should
be approached with caution. This should es-
pecially be the case for languages with insuf-
ﬁcient research as to the functions played by
these symbols, and would help avoid making
any irrecoverable issues in the data. (5)The
most effective ways for building pipelines for
African languages remains an under-explored
area of research. We therefore call for empir-
ical studies that investigate development of vi-
able pipelines. (6)We emphasize the need to
respect user consent, data sovereignty, wishes
of local communities, and other important is-
sues such as privacy while carrying out any
collection or archival effort (Sutherland, 2018;
Daigle, 2021; Makulilo, 2012). This is to pre-
vent the predatory use of data collected from
local communities including monitoring or con-
trolling local peoples, censorship, and other
surveillance activities. Properly handling data
mitigates physical, ﬁnancial, and other security
risks that poor data practices expose local com-
munities to (Turianskyi, 2018) and must also
be prioritized. We now further discuss issues
around data quality.
5 Garbage in, Garbage out
A manual evaluation of 205datasets involving
African languages such as those in CCA-
ligned (El-Kishky et al., 2020), ParaCrawl
(Bañón et al., 2020; Esplà-Gomis et al., 2019),
WikiMatrix (Schwenk et al., 2021), OSCAR
(Ortiz Suárez et al., 2020), and mC4 (Xue et al.,
2021) show that at least 15corpora were com-
pletely erroneous, a signiﬁcant fraction con-
tained less than 50% of correct data, and 82
corpora were mislabelled or used ambiguous3820language codes (Kreutzer et al., 2021). The
inaccuracy is due to a lack, or poor quality
of language identiﬁcation tools, dictionaries,
and text pre-processing piplelines, for many
low resource languages including African lan-
guages represented in these datasets. Further-
more, available resources are rarely evaluated
especially when crawled as part of a multilin-
gual dataset. Furthermore, Alabi et al. (2020)
ﬁnd that, fastText embeddings for Yorùbá has
an estimated 135K out of 150K words belong-
ing to other languages such as English, French,
and Arabic. New embedding models created
by Alabi et al. (2020) with a curated high qual-
ity dataset outperform the off-the-shelf fastText
embeddings even though the curated set has
fewer words. Results of these few studies paint
a gloomy picture for most current multilingual
datasets involving African languages, and mod-
els derived from them.
Inconsistent orthographies also contribute to
the data quality problem (Martinus and Ab-
bott, 2019). In many cases, orthographies may
not be standardized and will have signiﬁcant
spelling and punctuation variations across dif-
ferent domains. In some cases where standard
orthographies exist, word lists or dictionaries
do not necessarily represent the standardized
orthography. Using Hausa as an example, all
commercially published books and nearly all
Hausa language newspapers use the standard
romanized orthography. Standard romanized or-
thography is written without tones or any indic-
ation of vowel length (Schuh and Yalwa, 1993).
The orthography used in grammars, dictionar-
ies, and pedagogical documents on the other
hand, indicate tone and vowel length (Schuh
and Yalwa, 1993). Furthermore, languages that
have standard orthographies may also suffer
from inconsistencies when orthographic con-
ventions are not adhered to (Olúmúyìwá, 2013).
This is evident in the methods and practices for
content archiving of many African languages
on the web. For example, all VOA websites,
omit tones for African languages whose stand-
ard orthographies require tone diacritics. BBC
also does not adhere to the orthographic conven-
tions for Yorùbá texts except in the headlines,
JW.org also does the same for some Africanlanguages.
Apart from the aforementioned issues, lack
of constant and systematic use of African lan-
guages in contexts such as governance, law,
technology, science, and education prevents
African languages from expanding in vocab-
ulary to accommodate new concepts that have
become important parts of conversation else-
where. As a result, it is not uncommon to have
large amounts of foreign words in a dataset
which are not adapted to the phonological or
orthographic structure of the target African lan-
guage. Furthermore, terminologies continue to
be employed inconsistently and spelt differently
in many African venues.
To provide a concrete example of the data
quality problem for African languages, we per-
form a manual evaluation of Flores-101 data-
set (Goyal et al., 2021; Guzmán et al., 2019b)
for Yorùbá. We ﬁnd the following: (1)5:29%
spelling errors (2)2:7%inconsistent spellings
(3)1:2%borrowed words not adapted to the or-
thographic conventions of target language and
(4)12:4%incorrect tone marks. Detailed in-
formation is in Appendix G.
It is important to mention that a single error
in assignment of diacritics, for instance, can res-
ult in signiﬁcant semantic and syntactic differ-
ences in texts. The implication of inconsisten-
cies in orthography is hence enormous for low
resource African languages. Such inconsisten-
cies worsen the issue of data sparsity : when dif-
ferent spellings of the same word are employed,
or when tone or other grammatical features are
inconsistently marked, the same ‘word’ will
have many more surface forms than what it ac-
tually should. Data sparsity can in turn aggrav-
ate the situation for any work involving training
with data from different domains (e.g., in do-
main adaptation). That is, reliability of models
trained with erroneous data from a source do-
main will be diminished while transferring into
a target domain. Orthographic inconsistencies
also affect results of search engines (Choro ´s,
2005) in that these engines would not recognize
the relationship between a diacritized text and
its undiacritized counterparts (Asubiaro, 2014;
Olúmúyìwá, 2013). Again, this results in dif-
ﬁculty retrieving resources for many African3821languages. To optimize search for African lan-
guages that involve diacritics, some users em-
ploy normalized text which in turn further cre-
ates a mismatch between web documents and
other standard ofﬂine documents (e.g., books)
for many African languages.
Recommendations. (1) We recommend devel-
oping language identiﬁcation tools that cover
African languages. (2)Development of dic-
tionaries or even extended word lists will also
help the community ensure data quality. (3)
Manual inspection of sizeable samples of mul-
tilingual datasets should also continue to be
prioritized. (4)We also suggest orchestrated
efforts to enforce consistency in orthography
for the various languages. (5)Linguistic rules
may be appropriate for developing automatic
data cleaning and pre-processing, but develop-
ment of any such rules should be carried out
carefully. We now brieﬂy highlight community
efforts invested in developing skills, datasets,
and tools in the African NLP space.
6 Communities and Resources
The majority of existing resources for NLP are
the initiative of various non-governmental or-
ganizations determined to develop datasets and
tools for African languages. We list some of
these efforts for NLP, but also within the larger
contexts of artiﬁcial intelligence. We focus on
communities and venues here and list recent
funding initiatives in Table D.1 (Appendix).
Workshops. As far as we know, there are
two main venues in the form of workshops
supporting NLP for African languages, and
African AI. These are AfricanNLP and Black-
InAI. We provide details about these venues in
Appendix E.
Communities. Masakhane, Black in AI, Deep
Learning Indaba, Knowledge 4 All Foundation
Ltd (K4A), Zindi and ALTI are some of the
active communities for research on NLP for
African languages. More information about
each of these communities is in Section D.
Resources. The religious domain is currently
the major source of data for a large number of
African languages. Top amongst religious re-
sources is the Bible corpus (available in over
1;000languages of Africa (Resnik et al., 1999;McCarthy et al., 2020a)) and the JW300 web-
site (with data for100low-resource African
languages). Religious sources are constantly
updated with new data from the same languages
and new languages are often added, making
these sources increasingly useful. One issue of
these datasets is that, although they are parallel,
they may not be sentence aligned. Regardless,
these resources remain signiﬁcantly inadequate.
Most other data available for African languages
are raw and unlabelled. Still, these can be use-
ful in many applications (e.g., in training word
embeddings or language models, for backtrans-
lation). We provide more details about available
resources (labelled, unlabelled, and raw) and
tools in Appendix F.
Recommendations. (1) To achieve Afro-
centric NLP, we recommend active interac-
tions between differently existing communit-
ies, as well as encouraging new regional and
thematically-deﬁned communities. (2)We re-
commend extending these communities beyond
AI, NLP, and machine learning to involve the-
oretical linguists, anthropologists, sociologists,
ﬁeld workers, and other scholars and practi-
tioners with interest in African languages. (3)
We believe ACL and other similar organiza-
tions should continue to prioritize work on low-
resource languages by securing dedicated tracks
in their publication and dissemination venues.
7 Discussion and Conclusion
We discussed major challenges facing devel-
opment of NLP technologies for African lan-
guages. One of the most important recommend-
ations we would like to emphasize is to pri-
oritize African NLP work based on the needs
of African communities . For example, we be-
lieve development for data and tools for im-
proving health and education should be a pri-
ority. We also caution against extractive prac-
tices, and encourage creation of opportunities,
contexts, and venues for work on African lan-
guages and advocacy for reclaiming African
language policies. In addition, data literacy
and issues around data sovereignty and privacy
should remain of highest importance. We high-
lighted various communities and venues here
that we think should continue to be supported.3822Acknowledgements
We gratefully acknowledge support from the
Natural Sciences and ENgineering Research
Council of Canada (NSERC; RGPIN-2018-
04267), the Social Sciences and Humanit-
ies Research COuncil of Canada (SSHRC;
435-2018-0576; 895-2020-1004; 895-2021-
1008), Canadian Foundation of Innovation
(CFI; 3771), Compute Canada (CC),and UBC
ARC-Sockeye.Any opinions, conclusions or
recommendations expressed in this material are
those of the author(s) and do not necessarily
reﬂect the views of NSERC, SSHRC, CFI, CC
or UBC ARC-Sockeye. We thank Rose-Marie
Déchaine for helpful discussions.
References38233824382538263827382838293830
A Effect of Tone in MT
In this experiment on tone, we used the
bible for the Yor-En pairs (Adebara et al.,
2021), and LDC dataset (Bamanankan Lexicon
LDC2016L01.) for the Bam-Eng pairs. Details
of the data sizes are available in Table A.1.
We developed python scripts to remove
diacritics from Bambara and Yorùbá no-tone
marked settings. In Table A.2, tone signiﬁc-
antly affects bleu scores for En-Yor pairs but
has marginal effect in the Bam-En pairs. The
inﬂuence of tones thus needs to be further in-
vestigated.
B Language Typology Information
In Table B.1, we provide typology information
covering tone, vowel harmony and SVC for
116African languages. The checkmarks in-
dicate the presence of the speciﬁed feature in
the language. To the best of our ability, this
information represents the features in the spe-
ciﬁed languages and for the speciﬁed features.
Although we do not claim that this information
is complete. This table was created by perus-
ing grammatical descriptions, pedagogical ma-
terials, and linguistic research regarding these
features in the speciﬁed languages.C The Language Situation in Africa
In Table C.1 we list the status for different lan-
guages in Africa. This table was created using
information available on ethnologue (Eberhard
et al., 2021) for each African country. The
national, regional, educational and Indigenous
languages are presented as it applies to each
country. We present all African countries in-
cluding those not ofﬁcially recognized in this
list. To the best of our knowledge, this list is
a true representation of the status of languages
used in Africa.
All African countries, except Ethiopia and
Liberia were colonized, with most gaining in-
dependence between the 1950s and the 1970s.
The colonialist came from different parts of
Europe and adopted different language policies
which seem to play an important role in the
language policies adopted by different African
countries today. Although economics, politics,
and globalization also play a crucial role. All
colonialists interacted derogatorily with Indi-
genous languages and often referred to them
asvernaculars . Although, the British colonial-
ists allowed Indigenous languages in their ter-
ritories if desired. The French, Spanish, and
Portuguese on the other hand did not tolerate
any Indigenous languages in public. Despite the
British’s tolerance for Indigenous languages, In-
digenous languages were allowed only in early
childhood education and Indigenous languages
where prohibited after the 4th year in element-
ary school (Williams, 2013; Ouane and Glanz,
2010).
From Table C.1, it is evident that colonial
languages have retained their ofﬁcial status in
many African countries till date (Khejeri, 2014).
Foreign languages are dominantly used in edu-
cation, and most ofﬁcial government functions,
even in countries where Indigenous languages
have ofﬁcial status (Banda, 2009). Accord-
ing to Ouane and Glanz (2010), only 25% of
the languages used in secondary education and
5%of the languages in higher education are
African. This is despite the known beneﬁts of
using Indigenous languages in Education and
minority language development (Bühmann and
Trudell, 2008; Trudell, 2005; Williams, 2013;
Bull, 1955). In cases where policy favours the3831
ofﬁcial use of Indigenous languages, some gov-
ernments have shown a lack of political will
to implement these policies (Williams, 2011).
The current linguistic situation thus seem to be
one of convenience rather than one from well
developed language policies.
Despite a few dissenting voices who argue
that the use of several mother tongues will ac-centuate inter-tribal conﬂict (Khejeri, 2014), the
general consensus is that preserving language
diversity through policies that encourage mul-
tilingualism are most desirable. Developing a
truly multilingual language policy for Africa
will certainly be challenging (Ouane and Glanz,
2010), but will be most beneﬁcial even to the
progress of NLP on the African continent.38323833D Communities
Many communities contribute signiﬁcantly to
the development of NLP for African languages.
We list some of them below. Masakhane aims
to build an active community geared at creat-
ing resources that are truly representative of
African culture, facilitating collaborations to
develop African NLP and lowering the barri-
ers for NLP participation. They achieve this
by having an active slack channel that fosters
interaction between stakeholders, organizing
workshops, creating easy to use google colab
notebooks among several other initiatives. Ma-
sakhane so far has over 1,000 members.
Black in AI is an organization that focuses
on increasing the presence, inclusion, and vis-
ibility of black people in artiﬁcial intelligence.
They achieve this objective through advocacy,
mentorship, and facilitating collaborations. Al-
though BlackinAI encompasses black people
beyond the African continent, and they do not
speciﬁcally restrict their operations to African
languages, it is a great community for collabor-
ations.
Deep Learning Indaba is an organisation
whose mission is to strengthen machine learn-
ing and artiﬁcial intelligence in Africa by en-
abling Africans to be active shapers and own-
ers of AI technologies. Deep Learning Indaba
which was inaugurated in 2017 organizes an an-
nual Deep Learning Indaba retreat for teachings
and practical sessions on AI. They also provide
mentorship programs and grants (the IndabaX)
that fund AI gatherings in 26 African countries
with plans underway to include more countries.
This is in addition to awards for the application
of AI to an African problem, for excellence in
research in tertiary African institutions, and for
services to the machine learning community in
Africa- Kambule, Maathai, and Umuntu awards
respectively. These programmes aim to build a
sustainable pan-African community of AI ex-
pertise, create local leadership in AI in every
country across the continent, and recognise ex-
cellence in research and application of AI tech-
nologies, respectively.
Knowledge 4 All Foundation Ltd (K4A) pi-
oneers machine learning methods of pattern
analysis, statistical modeling, and computa-tional learning and transforms these into techno-
logies for large scale applications in open edu-
cation. They organize symposiums, summer
schools, workshops, colloquiums, and confer-
ences. They also provide fellowship to develop
datasets and strengthen capacities and innov-
ation potential for low resource African lan-
guages under the international development pro-
gram. They have developed resources for Ewe,
Fongbe, Yorùbá, Chichewa, Wolof, Kiswahili,
Tunisian Arabizi, Twi, and Luganda. They
also various competitions to develop or improve
methods for NLP of African languages.
Zindi hosts a large community of African
data scientists and facilitates collaborations
between data scientists and organizations. They
provide a place to learn, improve skills and ﬁnd
a job. They also organize competitions for data
collection tasks and developing NLP models
for various African languages.
ALTI is one of the pioneering NLP com-
munities in Africa. They focus on making com-
puters usable in African languages and develop
and grow human talent that take African Lan-
guages into the information age. They also
provide a hub were NLP enthusiasts can be
mentored for NLP work in African languages.
Different organization provide funding for
NLP research. Some of these organizations are
presented in Table D.1.
E Workshops
TheAfricanNLP workshop has run annually
alongside ICLR and EACL in 2020 and2021
respectively. In 2020 ,32papers were presented
while in 2021 ,40papers describing different
systems were accepted. Currently, papers sub-3834mitted are non-archival, giving authors the op-
portunity to submit the papers to other venues.
BlackInAI has organized yearly workshops co-
located with Neural Information Processing
Systems (NeurIPS) since 2017 . Audience is
composed of researchers who self-identify as
Black and often has many works related to
African languages.
F Resources
F.1 Labelled Resources
Majority of labelled corpora is developed as
part of the development process of many NLP
tasks. This is due to a lack of readily avail-
able labelled corpora for many NLP tasks. La-
belled corpora has been developed for MT (Ad-
elani et al., 2021a; Nekoto et al., 2020; Tapo
et al., 2020; Emezue and Dossou, 2020; Ezeani
et al., 2020; Hadgu et al., 2020), classiﬁcation
(Niyongabo et al., 2020; Fourati et al., 2020;
Oyewusi et al., 2020), automatic spelling cor-
rection (Gezmu et al., 2018), morphological
segmentation (Outahajala and Rosso, 2016;
Mott et al., 2020), NER (Adelani et al., 2021b;
Hedderich et al., 2021), diacritic restoration
(Orife et al., 2020a; Asahiah et al., 2017), auto-
matic speech recognition (ASR) (Dossou and
Emezue, 2021; Tachbelie et al., 2020), and
speech translation (Godard et al., 2018). A sum-
mary of labelled corpora can be found in Table
F.5.
A few of the labelled corpora are developed
by trained linguists and language experts
(Strassel and Tracey, 2016a; Adebara et al.,
2021) while others are collected by native
speakers (Adelani et al., 2021b,a; Nekoto et al.,
2020). Furthermore, evaluation is often done
using automatic metrics that measure model
performance rather than data quality or inter-
annotator agreement (Outahajala and Rosso,
2016). Data is also often labelled on the
assumption that the data has been proofread
(Gezmu et al., 2018), while the procedure for
developing the dataset is often not discussed. It
is important to mention here that we advocate
that trained linguists or language experts, par-
ticularly those trained in African languages, be
involved in data collection or curation activities
for African languages. This is because of thelinguistic situation in Africa and the literacy
levels in African languages which have been
discussed in this paper.
F.2 Unlabelled Corpora
Unlabelled corpora seem to be the bulk of avail-
able data for African languages. Most corpora
are crawled from the web as part of multilingual
corpora development efforts like JW300 (Agi ´c
and Vuli ´c, 2019), ParaCrawl (Bañón et al.,
2020; Esplà-Gomis et al., 2019), WikiMatrix
(Schwenk et al., 2021), OSCAR (Ortiz Suárez
et al., 2020), mC4 (Xue et al., 2021), CCA-
ligned (El-Kishky et al., 2020), wikiAnn (Pan
et al., 2017). We provide a summary of unla-
belled corpora in Table F.5.
F.3 Crosslingual Tools
Pre-trained models like BERT (Devlin et al.,
2019), ELMo (Peters et al., 2018), Roberta (Liu
et al., 2019), GPT (Radford et al., 2018, 2019;
Brown et al., 2020), BART (Lewis et al., 2020)
have advanced the state of the art in a wide
variety of tasks, suggesting that these models
acquire valuable, generalizable linguistic in-
formation during the pre-training process. How-
ever, training language-speciﬁc models is pos-
sible for only a few languages which have
large amounts of data. A popular alternative
has been multilingual language models (MLM)
such as mBERT (Devlin et al., 2019), XML-
R (Conneau et al., 2020), MT5 (Xue et al.,
2021), mBART (Liu et al., 2020) and many
others. MLMs are trained on large amounts
of unlabelled data from multiple languages so
that low resource languages may beneﬁt from
shared vocabulary and other linguistic inform-
ation from high resource languages and other
similar languages in the MLM. Very few MLMs
have representations for African languages and
many of those available are trained with noisy
data (Adelani et al., 2021c; Alabi et al., 2020;
Kreutzer et al., 2021) which may affect down-
stream tasks. We provide information about
crosslingual tools in Table F.4 and other NLP
models in Table tab:modelresources.3835F.4 Raw Data
Blog sites, online newspapers, Wikipedia, Je-
hovah’s Witness website are some sources of
raw data for African languages. We provide
details in Table F.1 and Table F.5.
G Data Quality
The preliminary evaluation of Flores101 data-
set for Yorùbá was done by a native speaker
of Yorùbá who is also a linguist. Speciﬁcally,
57% of the dataset was randomly selected while
keeping track of the word’s sentential context
and the English source context. We removed
all numerals written with digits from the data-set before the random selection. This was to
help us focus on lexical items alone. We found
(1)spelling errors, (2)inconsistent spellings,
which are instances of different spellings for
the same word within the text, (3)borrowed
words not adapted to the orthographic conven-
tion of the target language, without recourse to
named entities, and (4)incorrect tone marks.
Further evaluation will be required to access
the quality of the dataset on a semantic and
syntactic level. Examples of each of the errors
identiﬁed is presented in Table G.1.38363837
MT5 afr, nya, mlg hau, ibo, sna, som, sot / nso, swa, xho, yor, zul
MBERT afr, swa, yor
XLM-R afr, amh, hau, gaz, som, swa, xho.3838383938403841