
Mohammad Ali
College of Information Studies
University of Maryland, College Park
mali24@umd.eduNaeemul Hassan
Philip Merrill College of Journalism
College of Information Studies
University of Maryland, College Park
nhassan@umd.edu
Abstract
Framing analysis is predominantly qualitative
and quantitative, examining a small dataset
with manual coding. Easy access to digital data
in the last two decades prompts scholars in both
computation and social sciences to utilize vari-
ous computational methods to explore frames
in large-scale datasets. The growing scholar-
ship, however, lacks a comprehensive under-
standing and resources of computational fram-
ing analysis methods. Aiming to address the
gap, this article surveys existing computational
framing analysis approaches and puts them to-
gether. The research is expected to help schol-
ars and journalists gain a deeper understanding
of how frames are being explored computation-
ally, better equip them to analyze frames in
large-scale datasets, and, finally, work on ad-
vancing methodological approaches.
1 Introduction
Vaccine hesitancy has long been recognized as a
problem despite research evidence favoring the vac-
cine’s effectiveness (Sallam, 2021). Understand-
ing how the vaccination is framed by news media
might provide a solution to vaccine hesitancy be-
cause a frame determines “how [people] evaluate
[a problem] and choose to act upon it” (Entman,
1993, p. 54). Like this, exploration of many other
problems (e.g., gun violence) warrants analysis of
frames, especially in large-scale datasets in this era.
Traditionally, researchers explore frames using
qualitative and quantitative methods that require
manual labor and can handle small amounts of data
(D’angelo, 2018; Reese et al., 2001). Production
of and easy access to large volumes of digital data
in the last two decades prompt scholars to harness
the exploration of frames in such big data computa-
tionally (Card et al., 2015; Liu et al., 2019; Walter
and Ophir, 2019; van Atteveldt and Peng, 2018).
Prior studies proposed various computational
methods (e.g., topic modeling and neural network).As the scholarship is growing, a scarcity appeared
regarding a comprehensive understanding and re-
sources of computational framing analysis methods
(Nicholls and Culpepper, 2021; Sanfilippo et al.,
2008). Researchers might be confused with multi-
ple approaches to this analysis, raising questions:
how many computational framing analysis methods
exist, and which one they should apply?
To address the problem and help researchers with
such questions, we survey existing computational
framing analysis approaches and put the methods
and relevant resources together. As such, the survey
is guided by the following three research questions:
RQ1. What computational methods do researchers
use to explore frames in large-scale datasets?
RQ2. How do researchers conceptualize a frame
in computational framing analysis studies?
RQ3. How do researchers use computational meth-
ods in exploring frames?
The primary contributions of this article are: a)
it provides a comprehensive understanding and re-
sources of existing computational framing analy-
sis methods and puts them together for interested
scholars to gain deeper knowledge and start build-
ing on that, and b) it adds new thoughts to the on-
going discussion on advancing the computational
methods of framing analysis.
2 What is Frame or Framing?
This section provides a conceptual understanding
of framing. A classic example of framing concerns
a debate over whether to permit Ku Klux Klan to
hold a public rally. One news story with the head-
line “Ku Klux Klan Tests OSU’s Commitment to
Free Speech” reported the rally as a free speech
issue, while another one with the headline “Possi-
ble Ku Klux Klan Rally Raises Safety Concerns”
reported it as a disruption of public order. As re-
flected in the headlines, the two stories used differ-
ent frames. People who read the free speech news
story expressed higher tolerance toward KKK’s9335
rally compared to those who read the public order
news story (Nelson et al., 1997, p. 581). Fig-
ure 1 shows similar frames deployed in two news
headlines on the 2022 Buffalo mass shooting.
Scholars are not agreed upon any unified framing
definition (Hertog and McLeod, 2001; Van Dijk,
2016). However, a prominent definition, widely
used in both traditional and computational framing
studies, was provided by Entman (1993). He says:
To frame is to select some aspects of a
perceived reality and make them more
salient in a communicating text, in such
a way as to promote a particular problem
definition, causal interpretation, moral
evaluation, and/or treatment recommen-
dation for the item described. (p. 52)
As per this definition, a frame is largely deter-
mined by its outcome effects, such as four func-
tions: a) defining problems, b) diagnosing causes,
c) making judgments, and d) suggesting remedies.
The functions depend on how some selected aspects
of "perceived" reality are made salient. In 2003,
he defined it a bit differently, “Framing entails se-
lecting and highlighting some facets of events or
issues, and making connections among them so
as to promote a particular interpretation, evalu-
ation, and/or solution” (Entman, 2003, p. 417).
This definition seems to have made a few shifts,
such as from “causal interpretation” to “interpreta-
tion,” from “moral evaluation” to “evaluation,” and
from “treatment recommendation” to “solution.”
The salient aspects are also interconnected.While approaching frames as cultural phenom-
ena, Hertog and McLeod (2001) identified a frame
as a cultural "[structure] of meaning that includes a
set of core concepts and ideas," including “conflicts,
metaphors, myths, and narratives” (p. 160). A
frame has also been explained as “a central organiz-
ing idea. . . for making sense of relevant events, sug-
gesting what is at issue” (Gamson and Modigliani,
1989, p. 3). Reese et al. (2001) defined a frame
from the sociological perspective and focused on
six aspects (italicize): “Frames are organizing prin-
ciples that are socially shared andpersistent over
time, that work symbolically to meaningfully struc-
ture the social world” (p. 11). In a recent def-
inition, D’angelo (2018) defined news framing
as "how journalists, their sources, and audiences
work within conditions that shape the messages
they construct as well as the ways they understand
and interpret these messages” (p. xxiv).
To describe a frame’s aspect highlighting some
selected facets of an issue or event, Fairhurst
(2005) utilized an analogy that “choosing language
to frame people’s actions and events is like moving
a telescope into position” (p. 125). The selected
aspects are then coherently organized in a way to
make an argument, which finally promotes a partic-
ular interpretation, evaluation, and solution. This
organization of selected aspects could even be sub-
tle, as framing also “refers to subtle alterations
in the statement or presentation of judgment and
choice problems” (Iyengar, 1994, p. 11). An-
other crucial aspect of framing is “to choose one
particular meaning (or set of meanings) over an-
other" (Fairhurst and Sarr, 1996, p. 3) that is also
supported by Entman (1993), who says a frame
“operates by selecting and highlighting some fea-
tures of reality while omitting others” (p. 53).
Contexts in Framing . A frame is considered
context-sensitive. It is shaped in four locations: i)
communicator, ii) texts, iii) receiver, and iv) culture
(Entman, 1993). The culture is the stock of com-
monly invoked frames and explained as (a part of)
contexts. A news report’s content is fully compre-
hensible when its contextual information is at the
disposal of readers. They interpret a frame and its
meaning following contextual information (Baden
and D’Angelo, 2018; Tewksbury and Riles, 2018).
Framing Devices . Framing devices can be de-
fined as tools that are used to make a piece of in-
formation more salient, which is, in other words,
"making a piece of information more noticeable,9336meaningful, or memorable to audiences" (Entman,
1993, p. 53). While conceptualizing a frame, we
accumulated framing devices (see Table 1). To
make the list concise and convenient, we combined
similar devices and put them into four groups: a)
content, b) action, c) context, and d) communica-
tor. The devices or tools can be used to provide
either higher or lower salience to selected aspects
of reality. In some cases, multiple devices can be
applied together as a new device. For example, jar-
gon, metaphors, and contrast can together be used
to develop a "story" (Fairhurst and Sarr, 1996).
3 Method
We utilized three ways to identify and select rel-
evant articles for a comprehensive understand-
ing of computational framing analysis methods.
First, we searched on Scopus, an abstract and cita-
tion database of Elsevier, using relevant keywords:
("computational framing analysis" OR "computa-
tional frames analysis" OR (("frame analysis" OR
"framing analysis") AND "computational"). It pro-
vides 95 articles in the English language. We man-
ually read their abstracts and sorted out 13 articles
relating to computational framing analysis. In the
sorting process, we read the articles’ method sec-
tions if needed to make the decision. Other 82
articles were excluded due to their irrelevance. The
excluded articles were related to “frames” in other
fields, such as building structures (e.g., 2D plane
frames) and mechanical engineering. Second, we
searched on Google Scholar using the exact key-words and included articles until the third page
as no relevant article was found on the third page.
This gave us ten relevant articles. Six articles were
common in both the Scopus and the Google Scholar
searches, resulting in 17 unique articles from both
sources. Third, while reading through the 17 se-
lected articles, we tracked down 20 more relevant
articles cited in some of those articles. The 20
articles did not appear in the Scopus and Google
Scholar searches probably because of the differ-
ent keywords and phrases used in their titles and
abstracts.
Finally, we got a total of 37 articles selected for
this survey (see Figure 2). The articles involve
journals and conferences in both computation and
social science disciplines. Reading through the arti-
cles and their supplemental materials (e.g., coding
schema guiding the annotation), if any, we utilized
an inductive way to scrutinize various aspects, in-
cluding a) framing conceptualization, b) functions
of computational framing analysis approaches, and
c) results and their interpretation. We reported
available datasets, codes, and other relevant re-
sources, if any.
4 Analysis
This section presents an analysis of the selected arti-
cles in two broad parts. The first part answers RQ1,
and the second part answers RQ2 and RQ3. Table
2 summarizes the articles, identified approaches,
codebook, corpora, domains, and resources.
Codebook, Corpora, & Approaches (RQ1) .
Analysis of the articles identified at least nine ap-
proaches and three major coding schema and anno-
tated corpora for computational framing analysis.
The approaches are in the categories of supervised,
unsupervised, and mixed methods. A supervised
method usually needs an annotated subset of data.
Here, the model is first trained on a labeled dataset
(training data) and then applied in a new similar
dataset (test data) to classify or predict each in-
stance (Kotsiantis et al., 2007). In contrast, an un-
supervised method does not need any pre-annotated
datasets. Instead, it explores all unlabeled data.
Conceptualization & Functions (RQ2 & RQ3) .
As a way of answering RQ2 and RQ3, we explore
how researchers conceptualize frames and utilize
computational methods in analyzing frames in each
approach, codebook, and corpora.93374.1 Codebook & Corpora
4.1.1 Policy Frames Codebook
Boydstun et al. (2013) and Boydstun et al. (2014)
proposed a codebook named "policy frames code-
book" (PFC). The PFC consists of 14 categories of
"frame dimensions" and an "other" category. The
dimensions include "economic frames," "capacity
and resources frames," "morality frames," etc. For
example, a news report is labeled as an economic
frame if it focuses on "the costs, benefits, or mone-
tary/financial implications of the issue (to an indi-
vidual, family, community, or to the economy as a
whole)" (Boydstun et al., 2014, p. 6).
They developed the codebook through brain-
storming and iteration of applying it to random
texts. With the codebook, they deployed 3,033
coders to manually code three sets of articles on im-
migration, tobacco, and same-sex marriage. Using
the labeled documents, they finally developed a lo-
gistic regression binary text classifiers (i.e., present
or absent) (Boydstun et al., 2013, 2014).
4.1.2 Media Frames Corpus
Using PFC, Card et al. (2015) offered a manually-
annotated corpus of news reports named “media
frames corpus” (MFC). The news reports were col-
lected from three domains: immigration, smoking,
and same-sex marriage. The MFC was applied in
other studies (e.g., Field et al., 2018). Card et al.
(2015) annotated the three datasets based on PFC’s
15 framing dimensions (Boydstun et al., 2013).
The authors, however, did not apply the annota-
tions to any new datasets. In 2016, they added four
more categories—pro, neutral, anti, and irrelevant.
Conceptualization in PFC & MFC . Boydstun
et al. (2013, 2014) conceptualized framing by re-
sorting to the widely used framing definition of
Entman (1993). Overall, they put “language” at the
center of identifying and analyzing frames. PFC’s
development is motivated by three framing con-
cepts: a) frame selection varies based on various sit-
uations, b) frames evolve over time, and c) frames
spread across issues, geographic locations, and in-
stitutions or organizations. Card et al. (2015) also
used Entman (1993)’s definition in conceptualizing
frames. They focused on some framing elements
that work coherently as a framing package.
Review . The authors conceptualized frames
with existing framing definitions. However, fram-
ing aspects they mentioned (e.g., Entman, 1993)
were not utilized in developing the 15 “framingdimensions.” Considering the development process
and broader definitions of each frame, the 15 di-
mensions seem to be more fit with “topics,” not
frames. As per the framing theory, the categoriza-
tion of these dimensions looks arbitrary and too
broad to understand a frame’s nuances. For exam-
ple, a text is identified as an "economic frame" if it
focuses on anything of the whole economy. Let’s
consider the Ku Klux Klan’s example mentioned
above. As per MFC’s 15 dimensions, both KKK
news reports could probably be identified as a "law
and order, crime and justice frame" under the PFC.
Here, it does not answer the "how" question at all.
The dimensions, however, can be considered as top-
ics. The MFC corpus inherited the same limitations
as it was developed using the PFC codebook.
4.1.3 Gun Violence Frame Corpus (GVFC)
This article identified another annotated corpus
named "Gun Violence Frame Corpus" (GVFC). It
was applied in neural network-based models dis-
cussed later. In this dataset, the authors manually
annotated 1,300 news headlines collected from 21
U.S. news media outlets. Using nine pre-defined
codes drawn from literature, multiple coders an-
notated the headlines. Finally, they used a BERT
model and made a frame prediction classifier. Its
overall accuracy is 84.23
Conceptualization . Liu et al. (2019) used Ent-
man (1993)’s prominent definition to conceptualize
framing. They highlighted various ways of con-
structing frames, such as word choice and labeling
by journalists “to promote a certain side” (p. 504).
The authors also focused on generic versus issue-
specific frames. In terms of manual codes, they
applied a deductive approach— first defining some
frames and then manually labeling news articles
into those pre-defined frames.
Review . The article briefly conceptualized a
frame and included the aspects of widely-used
framing definition (e.g., Entman, 1993). However,
all the framing codes in GVFC were not defined
following how the framing was conceptualized. For
example, a code was defined in the category of pol-
itics ". . . as long as [a] news headline mentions a
politician’s name” which seems not aligned with
the nuances of their conceptualizations.
4.2 Computational Approaches
4.2.1 Topic Modeling
Various prior studies utilized topic modeling (TM)
to explore frames (e.g. DiMaggio et al., 2013).9338Method . The TM algorithm discovers latent
themes in a large collection of documents (Blei,
2012). A topic is a probability distribution over a
fixed vocabulary (p. 78). The algorithm produces
a number ( k) of lists of words based on the words’
higher probability of being in a list. Each list of
words is considered to be a topic, and each topic
has a different probability distribution. The latent
Dirichlet allocation (LDA) topic model provides
an assignment of each document to the topic(s). As
a mixed-membership model, each of its documents
may be assigned to multiple topics, considering
that a document could have elements of multiple
topics. DiMaggio et al. (2013) used the LDA topic
modeling to explore frames. They view each topic
as a frame, saying that a topic “includes terms that
call attention to particular ways” (p. 593).
Conceptualization . In the study of DiMaggio
et al. (2013), they conceptualized a frame as “a
set of discursive cues (e.g., words, images, and
narrative) that suggests a particular interpretation
of a person, event, organization, practice, condi-
tion, or situation” (p. 593). They cited Gamson
et al. (1992)’s definition that a frame is “a central
organizing principle that holds together and gives
coherence and meaning to a diverse array of sym-
bols.” They considered each topic as a frame.
Review . Here, the conceptualization of a frame
looks consistent with the overall framing idea.
However, the topic model’s output (i.e., lists of
words) and their interpretation seem not aligned
with framing aspects. A list of words in the topic
model comes without any connection among them
due to its features (e.g., bag-of-words). The in-
terpretation of each word list in DiMaggio et al.
(2013) also indicates it as a theme or issue, not a
frame. For example, they reported the results by
utilizing words like “highlight,” “emphasize,” and
“concerned with” (e.g., this topic highlights legisla-
tive actions). Framing nuances like a problem and
causal interpretation could not be extracted here.
4.2.2 Structural Topic Modeling (STM)
Method . The STM model was also used to explore
frames (e.g., Roberts et al., 2014). Compared
to LDA topic modeling (Blei, 2012), STM al-
lows including metadata or covariates in the model.
With metadata (e.g., political ideology and time)
added to the dataset and model, the STM allows
researchers to interpret how the topics are associ-
ated with those metadata. For example, in terms
of political ideology, such as conservatives and lib-erals, researchers might identify a topic as more
aligned with conservatives and another topic with
liberals. Metadata can also be used in predicting
the topics’ prevalence by metadata (Gilardi et al.,
2021; Nicholls and Culpepper, 2021).
In their study exploring topics in a corpus of
newspaper texts, Gilardi et al. (2021) used some co-
variates, including time. Their results show how the
topics are distributed over time across various states
in the U.S. Since the authors followed DiMaggio
et al. (2013)’s argument of considering a topic as a
frame, their results’ interpretation also focuses on
themes or topics, instead of frames.
Conceptualization . Gilardi et al. (2021) con-
ceptualized a frame with Gamson et al. (1992)
definition that a frame can be understood as a “sto-
ryline or unfolding narrative about an issue” (p.
385). In terms of exploring frames by STM, Gi-
lardi et al. (2021) relied on DiMaggio et al. (2013)
argument that topics identified through TM can be
viewed as frames.
Review . Like the topic modeling approach (Gi-
lardi et al., 2021), the STM algorithm is also con-
strained by considering a topic as a frame. So,
the STM contains similar limitations in terms of
framing analysis. Compared to topic modeling,
the STM offers additional insights into the top-
ics or themes through the analysis of covariates.
Both methods are based on the bag-of-words idea,
indicating the lack of semantic contextualization
needed for exploring frames.
4.2.3 Hierarchical Topic Modeling
Method . Studies also used hierarchical topic
modeling (HTM) to explore frames. Nguyen
(2015) and Nguyen et al. (2015) introduced an
HTM model named “Supervised Hierarchical La-
tent Dirichlet Allocation (SHLDA)" that aims to
analyze frames in a large dataset. As the SHLDA
works, each document in the corpus is associated
with a continuous level of scores (e.g., conserva-
tive vs. liberal ideology). It produces a hierarchy
of topics, where the first-level nodes are consid-
ered agendas and the second-level nodes as frames.
Documents’ scores help explain how the topics are
framed concerning respective people’s positions.
Its document generative process combines the hi-
erarchical LDA and hierarchical Dirichlet process
(HDP). The authors applied it to three datasets and
conducted qualitative and quantitative analyses to
validate the models’ agenda and frames.
Conceptualization . Nguyen (2015) also used9339the framing definition of Entman (1993) in concep-
tualizing a frame. However, unlike Gilardi et al.
(2021), Nguyen (2015) considered a topic as an
agenda (e.g., what topics are talked about) and a
sub-topic as a second-level agenda or a frame (e.g.,
how these topics are talked about).
Review . As elaborated above, the SHLDA is one
step ahead of topic modeling. However, a crucial
incongruity remains in how they conceptualized a
frame (e.g., sub-topics) and interpreted the results.
Though there is a lack of unified framing defini-
tion, the idea of considering a sub-topic as a frame
does not align with traditional framing conceptu-
alization (Entman, 1993; McCombs et al., 1997;
Ghanem, 1997). Like many prior framing studies,
the SHLDA output might also be considered as sim-
ply topics and their relevant attributes, not frames.
Moreover, Nguyen (2015)’s qualitative analysis to
validate the output as frames is not systematically
executed, and the presentation of its results does
not illustrate any framing aspects (Entman, 1993)
4.2.4 Cluster Analysis
Method . The k-means clustering algorithm is
another unsupervised approach used to explore
frames. Burscher et al. (2016) conducted two
k-means clustering in a dataset. One includes all
words, and another includes selected words (i.e.,
nouns, adjectives, and adverbs). After creating doc-
ument vectors with TFIDF in both groups, they
conducted k-means clustering to find clusters. As
a centroid-based clustering approach works, a cer-
tain number of clusters ( k) is specified in advance,
and each cluster is represented by its center. They
select the number of clusters ( k) using the "elbow
method." Each document is assigned to a cluster
based on its relatively closer distance to that cluster
center (Burscher et al., 2016). Unlike topic mod-
eling, k-means clustering is a single-membership
approach where each document generally belongs
to one cluster.
Conceptualization . Burscher et al. (2016) con-
ceptualized a frame in terms of “word frequencies”
and mentioned words as highly reliable and less
biased in producing frames. They "used word fre-
quencies as features [of a frame] in [their] cluster
analyses” (p. 533). They utilized traditional fram-
ing definition partially (e.g., presence or absence of
certain keywords, stock phrases) (Entman, 1993).
Review . As Burscher et al. (2016) conceptual-
ized and interpreted frames in terms of word fre-
quencies and co-occurrences, the framing deviceslisted in Table 1 suggest that word(s) are simply
one of the many devices to construct a frame. They
utilized such conceptualization that does not help
explore frames despite their acknowledgment that
“based on plain word features, a cluster analysis
cannot reveal complex semantic and logical rela-
tionships like causality” (Burscher et al., 2016,
p. 541). As a single-membership approach, this
method is also against one of the core framing
ideas that a framing device may belong to multiple
frames. The results were presented with words, in-
cluding “refer to.” For example, “cluster B5 refers
tonuclear power . . . in Iran” (p. 439). The results
indicate these as a topic or issue. It does not indi-
cate "how" the “nuclear” issue was discussed and
evaluated as a problem. Both conceptualization and
output seem to illustrate certain topics, not frames.
4.2.5 Neural Network Model
Method . Some studies utilized the neural network
approach to build frame-identifying classifiers and
analyzed frames in various text documents (e.g.,
news reports and tweets). Mainly, two annotated
datasets namely, MFC and GVFC, were used in
building these models.
MFC was utilized in a number of such stud-
ies, including probabilistic soft logic (PSL) (John-
son et al., 2017), LSTM neural network (Naderi
and Hirst, 2017), recursive neural network (Ji
and Smith, 2017), and transformer-based language
models such as BERT and RoBERTa (Khanehzar
et al., 2019; Cabot et al., 2020; Mendelsohn et al.,
2021). Some studies used MFC’s annotated news
reports partially and some used the full corpus.
Manually annotating the GVFC dataset, Liu
et al. (2019) used it to build a classifier using BERT.
It was later applied in other studies (e.g., Akyürek
et al., 2020; Tourni et al., 2021; Bhatia et al., 2021).
Conceptualization . As mentioned above, Liu
et al. (2019) used traditional framing definitions
(e.g., Entman, 1993) while conceptualizing a frame.
The studies applying MFC in building a neural
network-based classifier also conceptualize it by
drawing works from prior studies in both social
and computational science.
Review . In terms of the approach, both groups
of studies seem to have applied the state-of-the-
art pre-trained models based on transfer learning
that looks promising for advancing computational
framing analysis. However, the quality of the an-
notated training dataset appears not up to the mark,
which is reflected in the lack of results interpreta-9340tion in those studies. As reviewed above, the MFC
dataset seems more about categorizing a text into
broad topics (e.g., "economic frames"), not frames.
The subsequent studies applying MFC dataset also
did not adequately justify MFC’s 15 dimensions as
frames. Their results mainly focused on the accu-
racy of the model built on MFC training dataset, but
not whether the results provide framing nuances.
Compared to MFC, GVFC’s annotations look
more coherent but still lack in capturing framing
nuances, as mentioned above in sub-section 4.1.3.
For example, based on GVFC’s "politics" code,
Liu et al. (2019) interpreted its result saying, “it
appears that news media of all types have largely
politicized the gun violence issue right after each
major mass shooting” (p. 511). Here, the politi-
cization result and its interpretation do not align
with how the code is defined. The results might
indicate the texts “discussed” “a politician” or pol-
itics, which is a simple topic or an issue, not any
major framing element like problem definition and
its coherent argument.
4.2.6 Parsing Semantic Relations
Another line of computational framing analysis re-
lates to the exploration of semantic relations, going
beyond the bag-of-word model.
Method . Sturdza et al. (2018) operationalized
Entman (1993)’s four framing elements as their se-
mantic relations in texts. This approach proposed
the utilization of a rule-based system that uses ex-
isting computational software, such as TurboParser,
and implicature rules. Using the parser, the author
proposed identifying syntactic structures in texts
and then using a set of rules to transform the syntac-
tic structure into semantic networks. The networks
determine the semantic roles of each word (e.g.,
actors, events) through a set of sentiment analysis
implicature rules using a sentiment lexicon.
On the other hand, Ziems and Yang (2021) com-
putationally parsed various attributes (e.g., race)
of police shooting victims in news reports and ex-
plored how differently they are portrayed in news
media. They called it “entity-centric framing.” A re-
cent study by Yu (2022) looked at iterative adverbs
(e.g., again) in the political discourse considering
the adverbs evoke different attitudinal subtexts. Af-
ter extracting sentences with relevant adverbs, the
author grouped the sentences through k-means clus-
tering and identified the most representative key-
words in each cluster by a keyword mining tool.
Conceptualization . In conceptualizing a frame,Sturdza et al. (2018) relied on four framing ele-
ments of Entman (1993, p. 52). However, two
other studies lack adequate conceptualization of
framing. For instance, Ziems and Yang (2021)
mainly explored "entity-centric" frames but did not
elaborate on it from existing literature.
Review . Compared to the topic modeling
method, this approach looks innovative in terms
of understanding semantic relations between words
and phrases. However, the idea seems not ade-
quately exploited in understanding the nuances of
frames. For example, Sturdza et al. (2018) did not
apply the operationalization in a practical dataset.
Results of Ziems and Yang (2021) reported fre-
quency and correlations while Yu (2022)’s results
ended up with clustering and keywords, instead
of exploring the coherent argument and relations
among various framing devices. However, by its
design, the semantic relations approach holds the
potential for being used in advancing the computa-
tional methods of framing analysis.
4.2.7 Frequency-based Model
Method . This model proposed using QDA Miner
and its affiliated WordStat program to extract
words, and phrases, and examine their repetitions
across the corpus (Kang and Yang, 2022). In this
model, Sanderink (2020) proposed little changes,
which is to first determine certain frames (e.g.,
energy security) by reviewing prior scholarship.
Researchers then prepare a codebook using QDA
Miner. The codebook comprises words, phrases,
and rules that capture various elements relating to
each of the pre-determined frames. Finally, Word-
Stat was used to calculate the frequency of words
and phrases relating to each frame.
Conceptualization . Scholars in this approach
defined a frame in terms of word recurrence in
a document. They also highlighted the ways of
editing, interpreting, organizing, and presenting in-
formation for particular news content to be framed.
They compared a frame with a theme.
Review . The frame was not appropriately con-
ceptualized here, as per the existing framing defini-
tions (e.g., Entman, 1993). The consideration of
only the frequency of words does not compromise
the coherent meanings of frames.
4.2.8 FrameAxis
Method . FramAxis model explores “microframes,”
which is operationalized as a pair of antonyms,
such as legal versus illegal and fast versus slow.9341The antonyms are obtained from WordNet. Then,
the authors compute the bias of each microframe
(average contribution of all words in a document
to the microframe) and the intensity of each mi-
croframe (how strongly it is presented in docu-
ments). The microframes are analyzed along with
the agent-object-action patterns identified by the
semantic role labeling (SRL) model in the corpus.
Conceptualization . A frame in this approach
was conceptualized utilizing features of existing
definitions. For example, they highlighted present-
ing some selected aspects of an issue and making
them more salient, which aims to promote certain
values, interpretations, or solutions.
Review . Though the framing conceptualization
is derived from prominent framing definitions, the
core aspect of FrameAxis is the pair of antonyms,
which again limits the coherent argument, problem
definition, and other framing elements.
4.2.9 Analysis of Topic Model Networks
Walter and Ophir (2019) proposed this mixed
method approach, “Analysis of Topic Model Net-
works” (ANTMN), that combines topic modeling
and semantic network analysis. It was applied in
other studies (e.g., Ophir et al., 2021).
Method . ANTMN includes three steps. First,
the authors apply LDA topic modeling (Blei, 2012)
to the dataset. They label each topic by qualita-
tively examining three types of information: a)
words with the highest loading over each topic, b)
prevalent and exclusive words in each topic, and
c) full documents that are the most representative
of each topic. Second, ANTMN creates a seman-
tic network, where the topics serve as nodes, and
topics’ similarity relationships serve as edges. The
relationship is calculated based on the topics’ co-
occurrence in the documents. The output provides
a fully connected, undirected, and weighted net-
work. Finally, a community detection algorithm
was used to cluster the topics into various communi-
ties in the network based on the topics’ prevalence
in similar documents (Walter and Ophir, 2019).
Conceptualization . As the authors noted,
ANTMN can analyze emphasis frames (e.g., high-
lighting one side), not equivalency frames (e.g.,
gain vs. loss issue). They conceptualize a frame as
“a communit[y] in a network of topics” (p. 248),
based on linguistic patterns. Borrowing van At-
teveldt and Peng (2018)’s idea of arranging various
framing devices around an overarching idea (e.g.,
a cluster of relevant framing devices), they con-sider each topic in topic modeling as a framing
device. The cluster of topics was named as a frame
in ANTMN. They embraced the patterns of a frame
that “ repeatedly invokes the same objects and traits,
using identical or synonymous words and symbols
in a series of similar communications that are con-
centrated in time ” (Entman et al., 2009, p. 177).
Review . A few things seem to have restricted
ANTMN as a framing analysis model. As per the
framing conceptualization, the topics (aka framing
devices) under each network community need to
be coherently connected with each other to render
a coherent framing argument. The authors did not
explain how the devices are coherently intercon-
nected. This lack is reflected in the interpretation
of the results. For instance, they reported a fram-
ing result, saying that "the largest community on
the right consisted of topics about the cultural and
economic consequences. . . . Articles dominated
by these topics portrayed the impact of diseases
on the economy at large. . . . (Walter and Ophir,
2019, p. 259). Here, the authors mentioned topics’
names and what these topics portray with words
like“consists of” and“portrayed. ” The results did
not provide a coherent argument of the problem
or how one aspect is interconnected with another.
Though the output demonstrated some topics, the
authors’ claim of the communities as frames is not
supported with adequate evidence.
Despite the authors’ claim of this method as
unsupervised, manual human labor is still needed in
at least two places: a) an examination of words and
documents to label topics and b) an interpretation
of findings. However, no systematic method was
provided for executing the manual analysis.
5 Discussion and Conclusion
In this article, we surveyed 37 empirical studies
and reported on nine computational approaches,
three coding schema, and annotated corpora of
how they conceptualize frames and utilize vari-
ous computational methods to explore frames in
large-scale datasets. Overall, existing methods and
relevant resources are put together in this article.
In the absence of a comprehensive understanding
and resources of computational framing analysis
methods, this article’s insights will benefit fram-
ing scholars, especially those who are new, to gain
deeper knowledge in this single article and build
on that in further exploring frames in big data.
Algorithmic Functions . As demonstrated9342above, most algorithms used in computational fram-
ing analysis were not originally built for this pur-
pose. For example, LDA topic modeling is basi-
cally built to find broader themes in a large cor-
pus (Blei, 2012). The works of Liu et al. (2019)
and Walter and Ophir (2019), however, seem to
be innovative in terms of their efforts to build a
new or modified method to explore comparatively
more nuances of frames (Nicholls and Culpep-
per, 2021). As state-of-the-art models, neural net-
works appeared promising, but appropriate training
datasets need to be developed and used for that.
Conceptualization of Frames . Though the
computational methods mostly conceptualized a
frame with prominent definitions (e.g., the def-
inition of Entman, 1993), some of the methods
embraced framing aspects partially. Some studies
ended up operationalizing a frame in a way that
is not supported by the core framing aspects. For
instance, Boydstun et al. (2013, 2014) include
its main aspects in developing PFC, which de-
fined the 15 dimensions as “topics” in the name
of frames. Nguyen (2015) simply equated a frame
with second-level agendas or sub-topics without
adequate conceptual support. Though Liu et al.
(2019) and Walter and Ophir (2019) provided rela-
tively stronger conceptualization, their results sug-
gest that Liu et al. (2019)’s coding schema and
Walter and Ophir (2019)’s network communities
still lack in providing coherent definition and causal
interpretation arguments.
Interpretation of Results . Even if some studies
conceptualized frames in a relatively comprehen-
sive way, their results presentation and interpreta-
tion rarely went above describing relevant topics
and themes, not frames, as their results lack illus-
trating the coherent problem, causal evaluations,
or potential recommendations. An example men-
tioned under ANTMN above demonstrated such
evidence. Similar gaps in terms of framing con-
ceptualization and presentation of results and inter-
pretations remain in other approaches as well (e.g.,
topic modeling and cluster analysis).
Use of Framing Devices . The bag-of-word ap-
proach automatically excludes from analysis many
potential framing devices listed in Table 1. The
approaches examined in this article mostly utilize
only one framing device (i.e., words). Considering
the fact that framing analysis is a comprehensive ap-
proach involving multiple theoretical and practical
aspects (D’angelo, 2018; Golan, 2021), even thequalitative framing analysis through manual labor
is challenging work. From that perspective, com-
putational approaches are in the nascent stage in
addressing this social science problem of framing
analysis. So, the scholarship needs better computa-
tional methods and tools that might explore frames
as close as possible. For example, computational
approaches might want to retrieve the problem def-
inition and causal interpretation by including more
framing devices (see Table 1) by going beyond the
analysis of "words" in future studies.
Overall, this survey article contributed to the
literature on computational framing analysis in sev-
eral ways. As the first survey paper, it put together
existing computational framing analysis methods
and resources in one place, which can benefit future
scholars as at least a source of gaining more com-
prehensive knowledge on computational framing
analysis approaches. With this knowledge, they can
start further exploring frames in big data and ad-
vancing computational framing analysis methods.
This article also contributed to the ongoing discus-
sion and scholarly efforts on further improving the
computational tools in framing analysis.
Open Questions . The analysis and discussion
offer at least three open questions to be discussed
and addressed in future studies: a) How can a com-
putational approach capture all relevant semantic
relations, going beyond just words, for better ex-
ploration of frames, 2) How can the semantic rela-
tions in one text document be connected with or in-
formed by that of other documents for a broader un-
derstanding of frames across multiple documents,
c) Given the role of many framing devices, not
only words, in constructing frames (see Table 1),
how can we develop a computational model that
captures salience deployed through other framing
devices including sentences, omit, metaphors, size
and placement of texts, culture, emotion, sources,
catchphrase, exemplars, visual content, etc.
A crucial part of framing analysis is to capture
"how" a text is presented. Entman (1993)’s defini-
tion talks about "perceived reality" that also aligns
with people’s cognitive thoughts. In texts, the "per-
ceived reality" is usually dissected between what
is discussed and how it is framed. Though the
"what" part is generally apparent, the main issue is
to analyze the "how." In NLP, it appears difficult to
automatically distinguish between the "what" and
the "how." So, the framing analysis task in NLP is
more complicated than for human analysts.9343Limitations . Selecting articles for this survey
was a challenging task as the words “frame” and
"framing" are used in studies of other disciplines
(e.g., engineering). This prompted us to exploit
multiple ways (e.g., Google Scholar and Scopus) to
collect relevant articles as comprehensively as pos-
sible. Articles not matching the keyword searches
might have been left out. So, the list might have
some articles missing due to the search constraints.
We excluded non-English articles.
Regarding analysis, we mainly focused on
methodological design and quality in terms of cap-
turing and examining frames and framing devices.
We did not focus and report on the accuracy of
the models’ performance. For example, we empha-
sized the quality of the training dataset (e.g., MFC)
to explore frames, instead of the models’ accura-
cies. As this survey article is conducted from a
qualitative perspective, our results are constrained
by quantitative insights (e.g., the frequency or per-
centage of applying particular methods in prior
studies).
References934493459346A Appendix93479348